# Introduction
So far in this section, you've met `fastlane's` actions preparing our app metadata and screenshots for delivery, bringing us right at the cusp of being able to complete a full delivery workflow.
In this episode, you'll meet the `fastlane` action that closes the loop by automatically delivering your code-signed app, metadata and screenshots directly to the App Store. 
**[Slide 1]** 
Aptly enough, this action is called `deliver`. Predictably — and wonderfully — it once again follows fastlane's excellent documentation and usage conventions.


# Demo
## Command Line
Deliver is an alias for the `upload_to_app_store action`, and it again follows the expected conventions. The documentation recommends you prefer use of `deliver` in lanes, for consistency and coordination with larger delivery workflows. 
But that said, the command line is essential for initial setup. And it can be helpful from time to time for one off things you might want to do now and then.
In Terminal,


… I'll initialize `deliver` for our project by running:
```bash
fastlane deliver init
```


Let's take a look at the results:
<!-- Reveal in Finder -->
Initializing `deliver` creates 2 key resources: a project  `./fastlane/metadata` directory and a Deliverfile. 
The metadata folder gives you a single local resource for all your app metadata. You can edit all this ahead of time, then validate and upload this in your deliver lanes. 
metadata is once again organized by app language. For each language-specific, you'll find a file for each App Store metadata field. 
By the way, the reason only US English is included here is because I haven't yet set up my project Deliverfile. Let's take a look at that now:
<!-- open Deliverfile in Code -->
`Deliverfile` is empty by default, but there are extensive options available. 


<!-- 2019.05.07 Text updated to make this consistent with challenges in 4.09 -->
<!-- EDITOR: This section was added after main recording, and is labeled "4.08-*-Demo-Fastlane". The main recordings will need to be clipped so the sequence flows to match the updated script. Thank you, and apologies for the extra work… -->
I'll just instruct `Deliver` to include US English and German:
```ruby
languages(['en-US','de-DE'])
```

OK, now it's your turn. Before we go further, please take a moment right now to first run `fastlane deliver init` and configure your `Deliverfile`  like I just did. Go ahead and pause your video now
## Pause
## Resume
Great. Thanks for doing that -- that will make your challenge in the next episode a lot cleaner. 
Alright. I'll save my changes to my `Deliverfile`, and then run `deliver` :
<!-- End 2019.05.07 text modifications -->


```bash
fastlane deliver
```
In this basic form, `deliver` presents an overview of the metadata and screenshots, then on our approval, uploads these (but not our .ipa file) to the App Store. 
I could also include an .ipa and submit it immediately for review like this:
```bash
fastlane deliver --ipa "my-app.ipa" --submit_for_review
```
I could also download any previously uploaded screenshots and metadata using:
```bash
fastlane deliver download_screenshots
```
## Lane Use
But `deliver` shines brightest within lanes, so let's move on to lane usage now. 


Basic lane invocation is as simple as you'd hope:
```ruby
lane :sandbox do
  //...upstream actions
  deliver
end
```
In this form, `deliver` works exactly as you saw the basic form in the command line do a moment ago.
To upload an .ipa, simply include its path.
```ruby
lane :sandbox do
  //...upstream actions  
  deliver(
    ipa: "./build_AppStore/ChewChewTrain.ipa"
  )
end
```
By default, `deliver` will present a confirmation web page and wait for a manual ok before moving on to upload things. You can skip this confirmation page and also immediately submit your app for approval like this:
```ruby
lane :magic do
  //...upstream actions   
  deliver(
    ipa: "./build_AppStore/ChewChewTrain.ipa",
    force: true,
    submit_for_review: true    
  )
end
```
Given all the choices you can make when submitting an app, you won't be surprised that the action offers a lot of additional customization options. As usual, see the action documentation for full details.


# Conclusion
**[Slide 2]** 
`deliver` provides the final piece of the puzzle we've been piecing together in this section. It brings this section full circle, quietly and efficiently transporting all of your meticulously assembled metadata, screenshots, and .ipa's to the App Store. 
In the next episode, it'll be your turn to put `deliver` to work in your own lanes. I'll see you there!
