# Introduction
## Section Review
In this section, you've learned how to use fastlane's release tools — `precheck`, `snapshot`, `frameit` and `deliver` — to package and deliver your app metadata and screenshots to the App Store.
You've also implicitly leveraged several fastlane code signing, utility, and build tools — `match`, `increment_build_number`, and `gym` — to create and deliver a code-signed archive with a fresh build number to the app store. And you did all this simply by including a lane you'd previously built in your `release` lane.
## Fastfile Overview
Zooming out a bit, your Fastfile now contains a set of simple commands, each tailored to a specific app lifecycle task. From initial team development steps, through test builds, enrollment, and distribution, to packaging and submitted your finished app, your Fastfile has your back every step of the way.
## General Overview
I hope by now, you're getting a clear sense of how powerful and moldable fastlane is.. Once you master its basic actions, you can create deeply customized commands that you can run with just a single command. 
And of course, when you begin a new project, you can begin by initializing fastlane — just as you might typically do with Carthage or CocoaPods — and then pulling in a pre-configured Fastfile with your lanes ready to get to work for you. 
# Conclusion
We've now completed our walk through the app lifecycle, but we're not done just yet.
In the next section, we'll take a look at several advanced fastlane tools and techniques that can take your fastlane experience to the next level. Well, I mean to the *next* next level :). See you there… 