# Intro
We'll kick off our exploration of fastlane with a quick flyover of the ways we interact with the Developer Portal and App Store Connect.
# Introducing the Challenge
**[Slide 1]** 
No developer — and no app — is an island. As developers, it's natural to think in code-centric and functionality-oriented terms as we grow our apps in Xcode. But in reality, from the first moment we create an iOS app, up to and long past the point that we deliver it to the App Store for sale, we're constantly interacting with Apple's vast App Store ecosystem. 
**[Slide 2]**
We often do this explicitly — like when we distribute an app for beta testing with TestFlight or submit it to App Store Connect for sale. But we also do this implicitly, like every time we run an app and Xcode code silently code signs it, and every time we run it on one of our iOS devices or in a simulator, where we rely on implicitly generated provisioning profiles to make this possible.
This course is all about streamlining and improving our many interactions with the App Store ecosystem. And even more, it's all about learning how you can use fastlane to improve your own specific development processes.
And so, I'd like to start things with a challenge for you. This won't involve any coding, but it's every bit as important as the code challenges you'll face throughout the rest of this course.
**[Challenge Slide]**
Here's your challenge: Envision an app — either one you've delivered to the app store, or maybe that next great app idea you have right now. Take a moment to add up all the ways you interact with the App Store ecosystem from the time you first create it until it's submitted to the App Store, and make a list of them. 
Ready? Go ahead and pause the video now and draw up your list. When you’re done, resume the video and we’ll compare lists. See you then…
# Pause for Challenge
# Challenge Answers
Welcome back! Let’s take a look at this…
My list starts at the beginning. Well, actually before an app itself begins. (Don't worry… no birds or bees are involved here)…
**[Slide 3]** 
Even before a single line of a project code gets created, we first sign up with the Apple Developer program, in the process ensuring that we have a unique Apple ID. Already at this point, we're taken stepped within the vast Apple development ecosystem, and created an Apple ID that will form the basis of our apps' App Store lifecycles.
**[Slide 4]**
Next, we create an Xcode project for my Next Great App®. Before we finish this process, our app requires its bundle ID — a unique identifier — and is linked to a development team (even if I'm a mighty team of one). And at the same time, Xcode silently ensures we have the development code signing assets we'll need to be able to build and run our apps.
**[Slide 5]**
If you're part of a team, more things happen as multiple people begin working on a project. Each developer added to the team adds news devices to be provisioned.
  
**[Slide 6]**
As you add Capabilities like as MapKit or CloudKit to your app, Xcode once again silently registers these with the Developer Portal and updated your app's entitlements.
**[Slide 7]**
When you're ready to begin testing your app, whether you use Test Flight or a third party service,, you'll need distribution profiles, which once again Xcode typically handles on your behalf. You'll also need to create and upload a code-signed .ipa file, and of course, you also have to sign up and manage testers for your app. All these steps are deeply intertwined with the App Store ecosystem.
**[Slide 8]**
As you prepare to submit your app to the App Store, several new things come into play: Is your app metadata complete in all languages you support? Does it violate any App Store policies? Have you created and framed all your screenshots — one for every screenshot type, multiple by all devices you'll support, then multiplied again for each language you'll support?
**[Slide 9]**
Finally, it's time to submit your app for sale. You put on your lucky pocket protector, upload or select an archive file, complete several more point-and-click-intensive process, rub your lucky rabbit's foot and think happy thoughts. Hopefully your app's immediately accepted, but if not, you rinse and repeat until you reach app nirvana.
**[Slide 10]**
We could continue, but that's a good start.
Needless to say, our iOS development lives are deeply intertwined with the Developer Portal and App Store Connect. Not only are many of these interactions time-intensive, they also make or break the success of our app. 
The bad news is that some of the most important of these interactions — especially those relating to final submission — are all too easy to rush through. And letting this happen can have a big negative impact on the success of our apps.
Here's the good news: `fastlane` is designed specifically to transform each interaction we have with the App Store ecosystem. As this course proceeds, we'll transform each point of interaction from a manual, ad hoc, and error-prone process into an automated, consistent action you can initiate with a single command.
fastlane is designed to improve every step of the iOS app development process, and we'll reflect that in this course:
**[Slide 11]**
<!-- Please reveal each bullet point one by one to match these points-->
- We'll begin in Sections 1 and 2, by seeing how fastlane can streamline the initial iOS app development workflow.
- Next, in Section we'll focus on improving beta build, distribution and testing workflows.
- Section 4 will focus on civilizing the process of submitting your app and all its accompanying assets for App Store approval.
- And finally, in our closing Section 5, we'll step beyond the App Store ecosystem and see how fastlane can can add consistency and efficiency to core team workflows across the board.
# Up Next
**[Slide 12]** 
As you can see, fastlane is an ambitious tool, and we'll have a lot to cover.
We'll get underway in the next section with a quick flyover of fastlane. See you there…