# Introduction
In this challenge episode, it'll be your turn to put fastlane's distribution tools to use. I think you'll have fun with this.
# Introducing the Challenge
In the past three episodes, we've reviewed traditional test distribution techniques (the hard way), and then you've learned first about `pilot` for TestFlight and then gotten a look at fastlane's broad set of actions supporting third party testing and distribution tools (the nice way). Now you'll put these tools to use in your own lanes.
<!-- 

Test the below to see if we really don't have to supply the .ipa address. It looks like pilot only looks in the root directory by default, while the 3rd party actions should all see it in the subdir. But check...

 -->
Once again, you'll work with the lanes you've been developing in our project Fastfile. Here's your challenge this time:
- Update your project settings to use versioning (so that we can auto increment its build with fastlane).
- In your Fastfile, add a step to your `export_for_itunes_connect` lane to increment the project's build, so that each `gym` build gets a fresh build number.
- Create a new `distribute_to_itunes_connect` lane. Add 2 steps to this:
	- Call `export_for_itunes_connect`
	- Call pilot, and supply these 2 parameters:
		- The location of your .ipa file (you set this in your upstream call to `gym`. 
		- A change log. Pass this the dynamic build number.
And once again, for the brave and the bold, we have a bonus challenge. This one will require more digging than usual, but I think you'll find it quite rewarding if you take it on:
- Choose one of the third party test distribution services (see [https://docs.fastlane.tools/actions/#beta][1]). If none jump out at you, `installr` and `tryouts` are both exceptionally quick to set up. 
- If you don't have an account for this service, follow the action's inline link to that service, and then set up a free account. (At the time of recording, each linked service offered a free account).  
- Add a step to your existing `export_for_itunes_connect` to increment the build number.
- Create a new lane, and name it `distribute_to_<service_name>`, of course substituting in the specific service you've selected.
	- Call `export_for_itunes_connect`
	- Call the corresponding fastlane action for your service. You'll need to review its documentation to determine which parameters are needed and include these. You'll need to get the needed api and possibly other keys from your third party account.
Remember that if you need to check syntax, see what properties are available for a method, etc., [https://docs.fastlane.tools/actions/\<action-name\>]() is usually a great starting point. You may also find the Lane Context information at [https://docs.fastlane.tools/advanced/lanes/][3] helpful. Remember that if you get stuck anywhere, don't worry: We'll review all this together when you're done.
# Pause for Challenge
All right! Pause the video now and give that a try! Have fun!
# Demo: Challenge Answers
Welcome back! I hope you had fun with the challenges. Let's review them now…
The first part of your challenge was to enable build incrementing in your Xcode project. To do this, you select your target, go to Build Settings, and set your `Versioning System` to "Apple Generic". 
Next, we ned to update `export_for_itunes_connect` to auto increment our project's build each time its run. The hardest part of this was likely finding the name of the fastlane action. Maybe the easiest way to find this when you run into this kind of a situation is to just type in a keyword into the "Search docs" affordance on any fastlane docs page. The action needed is `increment_build_number`. I'll enter that right before I call `gym` in my lane. so that I know gym has the new build number available to it.
Now I add a new  `distribute_to_itunes_connect` lane, and inside it, I'll start by running `export_for_itunes_connect`.
Then I'll call `pilot`. Since I'm on multiple teams, I'll start by setting my `team_name`. Then I'll set the relative path to my app-store .ipa. Note that this is the path to the file itself, not to its parent directory. Last, I'll include the `changelog` parameter, so that I can pass the unique build number along. To get the build number, I use `lane_context[SharedValues::BUILD_NUMBER]  `. 
That's it for the main challenge. I'll initiate this in my terminal app, and we'll return to it in a moment.
Now let's review the bonus challenge:
I start by again inserting `increment_build_number` right before `gym` in my `export_adhoc` lane.
Then I'll set up a free account for my chosen third party test distribution service. To channel Captain Obvious, the details of signing up will vary for each. I'll chose `installr`, since it's especially easy. I go to their landing page, choose the "Get Started" button, enter the simple basics, and I'm in. Nice and simple!. I'll need an API Key, so I generate one. Boom! 
Now I'll create a new lane called `distribute_to_installr`, and add a first step to run my `export_adhoc` lane. Now I'll work off the documentation at [https://docs.fastlane.tools/actions/installr](). I can see that I need to pass the key I just generated, and that I can optionally pass notes. I add a method call including both these values, once again using my `lane_context` value to pass in the dynamic build number. I'll save my work and run this lane in a new Terminal tab…
My `distribute_to_itunes_connect` lane has completed. Jumping over the Developer Portal, I can see that my archive has ben submitted, and we're good to go. Nice! 
Fast-forwarding a bit, when my `distribute_to_installr` completes, I can see that……………
<!-- Review both of the results ¶ above. --> 
# Conclusion
Nice work! Your lanes are getting much more capable now, and at each step, the power of fastlane becomes clearer. We'll wrap up this section in the next episode. See you there…

[1]:	https://docs.fastlane.tools/actions/#beta
[3]:	https://docs.fastlane.tools/advanced/lanes/
