# Introduction
in this episode, it's your turn to cruise with fastlane. You'll create 2 new lanes: The first using TestFlight, and the second using any third party service you'd like. 
# Introducing the Challenge
## Basic Challenge
Your challenge begins with `TestFlight`.
- First, update your `build_appstore` and `build_adhoc` lanes so that right before each build the project gets a fresh build number.
- Create a new `distribute_to_appstore ` lane and set it to:
	- First, call your `build_appstore` lane
	- Then call pilot.
	- Provide pilot your team name (if needed) and set its changelog to the dynamic version and build numbers of your app
 When you're done, run the action and enjoy all the things your new lane is doing on your behalf!
## Advanced Challenge
Now here's your advanced challenge:
- Choose a third party test distribution services (see [https://docs.fastlane.tools/actions/#beta][1]). If none jump out at you, `installr` is particularly easy to set up. 
- If you don't have an account for this service, follow the action's inline link to that service, and then set up a free account. (At the time of recording, each linked service offered a free account).  
- Create a new lane, and name it `distribute_to_<service_name>`.
	- Call `build_adhoc`
	- Call the corresponding fastlane action for your service. You'll need to get the needed api and possibly other keys from your third party account , and then review the matching action's documentation to determine the needed parameters..
All right! Pause the video now and give that a try! Have fun, and I'll see you on the other side…
# Pause for Challenge
# Demo: Challenge Answers
Welcome back! I hope you had fun with the challenges. Let's review them now…
## Basic Challenge
In Fastfile, I locate my `build_appstore` and `build_adhoc` lanes. In each, I insert a call to `increment_build_number`, placing this right before gym runs. 
Next, I add a new  `distribute_to_appstore` lane. I make its first step `build_appstore`, and then I stub out a call to  `pilot`. I set my `team_name`, and then I set `changelog` using lane context properties:
```ruby
  lane :distribute_to_appstore do
    build_appstore
    pilot(
      team_name: "Brian Schick",
      changelog: "Version {lane_context[SharedValues::VERSION_NUMBER]}, Build {lane_context[SharedValues::BUILD_NUMBER]}"
    )
  end 
```
Go ahead and take a moment if you need to correct anything, and then run this. I'll do the same:
```ruby
fastlane distribute_to_appstore
```
Thanks to my nested lane `build_appstore` lane, this lane packs a serious punch now. Feel free to get a delicious beverage while your machine does an astounding volume of work for you.
When my process finished, I get a nice summary, and a quick trip over to TestFlight shows me that my new code-signed, auto-incremented build is ready to go. Sweet!
## Advanced Challenge
On to the advanced challenge:
I've chosen Installr, since as mentioned, it's a breeze to set up. I go to their landing page, choose the "Get Started" button, enter the simple basics, and I'm in. Nice and simple!. I'll need an API Key, so I generate one. Boom! 
Now I'll create a new lane called `distribute_to_installr`, and add a first step to run my `build_adhoc` lane, since any third party service requires Ad Hoc certificates and profiles. 
Working off the documentation at [..actions/installr]() I see that I need to pass the key I just generated, and that I can optionally pass in notes. Once again, I'll pass in my notes dynamically:
```ruby
  lane :distribute_to_installr do
    build_adhoc
    installr(
      api_token: "",
      notes: "Version {lane_context[SharedValues::VERSION_NUMBER]}, Build {lane_context[SharedValues::BUILD_NUMBER]}"
    )
  end
```
I'll run my new action
```ruby
fastlane distribute_to_installr
```
…hop in my time machine… and when everything finishes, I zip over to my Installr page. Everything's there and ready to go. Amazing!
# Conclusion
Congratulations. Once again, your lanes have reached new milestones of power and functionality, and they now stand ready to automate the entire beta build and distribution process on your behalf. 
In the next section, we'll wrap up this section. See you there…

[1]:	https://docs.fastlane.tools/actions/#beta
