# Introduction
The first tool you'll meet in this section is `precheck`. As you'll see, `precheck` makes checking all your app metadata ahead of time for potential issues that could cause to your app to be rejected an automatic process. Even better, it puts full control over the specific checks that'll be run in your hands.
# Lecture
## Understanding App Review and Rejections
**[Slide 1]** Ecstatic developer -\> Very Unhappy dev
See if this sounds familiar… 
**[Slide 1]** You've spent months developing your app — sweating the details, developing away, working on your marketing plans, and lots more. 
**[Slide 2]** Finally, the big day arrives: You submit your app to the App Store, get ready to open a vat of bubbly aaaaaand… 
**[Slide 3]** t turns out that your app failed to meet some guideline and got rejected. 
**[Slide 4]** That's about as deflating as things get.
**[Slide 5]**
It's worth a quick reminder that Apple tries to communicate its guidelines clearly to us. One helpful starting point for better understanding and researching Apple's guidelines is the developer-friendly [Preparing Apps for Review][1]. This does a nice job to pointing to the *why* of key guidelines, calling out the most common reasons for rejection, and pointing to core underlying resources.
Still, even with this kind of help, there's no denying that guidelines can be hard to remember. They change often, and its easy to overlook one or more of them as you focus on… you know… *developing* your app (silly you!).
## Precheck
**[Slide 6]** 
Happily, fastlane's got an answer, and it's called `precheck`. `precheck` is specifically designed to help us flag and fix —  ahead of time — any detectable App Store Review Guidelines violations in our apps. 
**[Slide 7]**
`precheck` downloads your app's metadata from the App store, and checks it for violation of rules. These include:
- Mentioning competing platforms
- Curse words
- Placeholder text not replaced
- Broken URLs
…and more. 
# Demo
Let's take a closer look: 
Yet again, `precheck` follows fastlane's conventions, with its documentation at [../actions/precheck][2]. It's an alias for `check_app_store_metadata`, and can be run both in command line and lanes.
Basic command line use is predictably simple:
```bash
fastlane precheck
```
<!-- show results in Terminal -->
Thanks once again to sensible defaults, we immediately get back an extremely useful checklist of potential issues showing us whether there are any detectable problems with our metadata. Nice!
## Lanes
Lane use is simple:
```ruby
lane :go_live_or_go_home do
  produce
end
```
From here, you can of course tune `precheck` extensively with parameters. In particular, you have excellent control over the rules it applies to your project. 
For each of rule, you can have `precheck` **skip** checking altogether, **warn** you of violations but continue running, or **fail**, blocking further lane actions from continuing. You can also add special words you'd like to avoid by passing the `custom_text` property an array of strings you want it to watch out for.
## Precheckfile
You could manually set all these parameters in your lane. But as we’ve seen elsewhere, a better way to do this is to set these values in dedicated configuration file — this time, named `Precheckfile`.
An easy way to do create this file and scaffold its possible options is to run:
```bash
fastlane precheck init
```
<!-- The scaffolded file looks like this:
# In general, you can use the options available
# fastlane precheck --help

# Remove the # in front of the line to enable the option

# You have three possible values for each rule options
# :skip
# indicates that your metadata will not be checked by this rule

# :warn
# when triggered, this rule will warn you of a potential problem

# :error
# when triggered, this rule will cause an error to be displayed and it will prevent any further fastlane commands from running after precheck finishes

# Examples:
# negative_apple_sentiment(level: :skip)
# curse_words(level: :warn)
# future_functionality(level: :error)
# other_platforms(level: :error)
# placeholder_text(level: :error)
# test_words(level: :error)
# unreachable_urls(level: :error)
# custom_text(data: ["fabric"], level: :warn)  -->
Taking a look at the new `Precheckfile` this creates, you can see that we have a set of switches that we can quickly uncomment and tune. If I wanted to customize the behavior of, say, the `other_platforms` check, I'd uncomment it and set its `level` property to `skip`, `warn` or `error` as desired. 
As you're tuning your settings, remember that a common use of `precheck` is to place it early in a workflow and have it *stop* your lane if it encounters any issues that would cause your app to get kicked back to you. If you set a rule to `warn`, you'll see a warning fly by in terminal, but violations of that rule will no longer halt your lane. 
You can also enter any custom words to watch out for here as well. These settings will apply to all uses of `precheck` from then on.
One last thing: `precheck` doesn't check our more general `Appfile` for App Store credentials and app identifiers, so we need to enter them in in our `Precheckfile` as well. Here's what I've entered into my `Precheckfile` for our sample project:
```ruby
app_identifier "com.razeware.ChewChewTrain"
username "bschick1@me.com"
team_name "Brian Schick"
```
# Conclusion
As you can see, `precheck` is a relatively small action that solves a pretty big real-world problem. It's easy to use, and can go a long way to limiting stress and uncertainty as you prepare to publish an app.
In the next episode, you'll try out `precheck` yourself. See you there…

[1]:	[https://developer.apple.com/app-store/review/]
[2]:	https://docs.fastlane.tools/actions/precheck/#precheck