# Intro
In the last two episodes,  you've learned about team-based code signing and fastlane `match`. Now it's your turn to put match to use by adding a new custom team development lane.
# Introducing the Challenge
Your challenge is to set up match in a new lane. Here's the details:
- Create a new lane named `sync_all_development`
- Inside your lane, invoking match to do the heavy lifting of creating, encrypted, and storing new team signing assets in your git repo. Configure match for development.
- Also configure match to renew its provisioning profiles if the device count on the developer portal has changed.
Remember to consult `match's` lane-specific documentation to get the names and types of the parameters you'll need.
Now here's your advanced challenge:
Fastlane has a helper action designed to be paired with `match`, called `register_devices`. It's purpose is to provide teams a single place to enter all team devices, so that provisioning profiles will always be in sync with all team devices.
Your challenge is to find `register_devices'` documentation and:
- Create an additional new lane and name it `sync_device_info`
- Add `register_devices` to it
- Now the fun part: Find and add the parameter to include a list of iOS devices inline. You'll see that this parameter takes a Ruby hash, which is similar functionally to a Swift dictionary, but uses fat arrows instead of colons. Connect one or two devices to Xcode to get their UDID's, and add them to your lane.
OK. Pause the video now and give the challenge a try. Have fun, and I'll see you when you're done.
# Pause for Challenge
# Demo: Challenge Answers
## Basic Challenge
Welcome back! Let's take a look at this…
I open Fastfile and start by creating a new lane
```ruby
lane :sync_all_development do

end
```
I add a line to call match. I need 2 parameters. The first is `type`, and I set this to "development". The second is `force_for_new_devices`, which I set to `true`.
```ruby
lane :sync_all_development do
match(
  type: "development",
  force_for_new_devices: true
)
end
```
If you had any issues with this, please update your code and run the lane now. I'll do the same here.
As you can see… in very short order, our `match` lane checks everything, makes any needed updates included silently decrypted and encrypting, logging into our Apple and git accounts, managing our keychains, and much more. I'm just a simple country boy, but I find that pretty amazing.
## Advanced Challenge
OK, on to our advanced challenge. As you likely guessed, part of the challenge here was designed to encourage you to proactively dig through the fastlane documentation on your own, since this is a key real world skill.
Our starting point is `../actions/register_devices/`. The documentation here is what you'd expect, but there's a small twist that's easy to miss: There's no documentation for using this action in the command line, and if you try to run `fastlane register_devices` you'll find that it's just not possible. This is a new pattern that you'll see here and there with specialized actions that only really make sense to run within a lane. You'll most likely know intuitively to just run that command in a lane, but it's good to know it exists.
The parameter I need is `devices` and as advertised, it takes a hash. I'll stub this out now:
```ruby
lane :sync_device_info do
   register_devices(
     devices: {
     }
   )
 end
```
Now I need to find my device UDID's. If you haven't done this before, you can use Xcode to do this by connecting your device, opening `Devices` and selecting the device, clicking on the `Identifier` property to toggle it from serial to UDID, and copying it. You can of course also confirm the exact device name here.
I'll do this for 2 devices and add the info here:
```ruby
lane :sync_device_info do
   register_devices(
     devices: {
       "brian excess" => "00008020-001C491C0268002E",
       "Pro 120" => "f25bd75b4b3d643c749902dce888ae83c1f1f4ad"
     }
   )
   match(type: "development")
 end
```
I'll run my new lane now. Once again, update your code and do this yourself, pausing the video as needed:
# Conclusion
Nice work! You've now learned and implemented fastlane's team signing code tools. As you can see, it's not at all difficult to implement this, and if your needs fit fastlane's vision, it's a beautifully executed that might transform how you work. 
In the next episode, we'll learn more about making lanes themselves more powerful. See you there!