# Introduction
Now it's your turn to put into practice some of the lane and configuration tips of the past 2 episodes.
# Introducing the Challenge
Your basic challenge this time will be to:
- Add a lane description of "Update iOS UDID's on Developer Portal" to your  `sync_device_info` lane, and one of "Sync team Development assets" to your `sync_all_development` lane. 
- Add a call to your `sync_all_development` lane calling your `sync_device_info` lane.
And of course, there's an advanced challenge for you as well:
- Your `sync_device_info` lane currently lists devices inline. It'd be nicer to move your device list to a separate file. You'll make this so, via the following:
	- Create a `Deviceile` file in your fastlane directory
	- Set up the required tab separated data and enter your device information (for file specs, you can grab the file at [http://devimages.apple.com/downloads/devices/Multiple-Upload-Samples.zip][1], then check out the`multiple-device-upload-ios.txt` file).
	- Replace the inline `devices` parameter and values with a parameter and value pointing to your new deviceFile.
<!-- Can we make getting that spec file easier, or is this reasonable? -->
Remember that the documentation is your friend, especially for your advanced challenge, where you'll likely want to reference the documentation for `register_devices`. Pause the video now, give this a go, and most of all… have fun! I'll see you on the other side…
# Pause for Challenge
# Demo: Challenge Answers
Welcome back. Let's take a look at this:
## Basic Challenge
As usual, I open Fastfile. As we saw in the previous episode, we'll use `desc` plus a friendly description ahead of each lane's declaration:
```ruby
desc "Update iOS UDID's on Developer Portal"
lane :sync_device_info do

...

desc "Sync team Development assets"
lane :sync_all_development do
...
```
Then I add a call at to `sync_all_development` to the top of `sync_all_development`:
```ruby
lane :sync_all_development do
sync_device_info
match(
  type: "development",
  force_for_new_devices: true
)
end
```
Now I'll run `sync_all_development`. 
```ruby
fastlane sync_all_development
```
As expected, fastlane cruises on over to  `sync_device_info` first, then completes the rest of the lane steps. Let's take a look at the lane documentation in the auto-generated `fastlane/README.md` file:
<!-- Show code + markdown preview -->
Nice! 
## Advanced Challenge
For our advanced challenge, I start by opening the documentation for `register_devices`, then create a new `Devicefile` within the project fastfile folder.
I grab the basic content of the downloaded tab-separated iOS device configuration file and pop that into my new file. Then I get the device names and UDID's from my existing inline device list
```
Device ID	Device Name
00008020-001C491C0268002E	brin excess
f25bd75b4b3d643c749902dce888ae83c1f1f4ad	Pro 120
```
Back in Fastfile, I replace the `devices` param and values with:
```ruby
  lane :sync_device_info do
    register_devices(
      devices_file: "fastlane/Devicefile"
    )
  end
```
One thing here that can easily trip you up is that the directory is relative to the project root, and you might expect it to be relative to the fastfile. If you get this wrong, fastlane's error messages give you helpful feedback.
Let's try this out in the CLI:
```ruby
fastlane sync_device_info
```
The new device list is working as expected, and especially as this grows to team size, we'll appreciate not having this clutter in our Fastfile.
# Conclusion
Nice work! In the next episode, we'll wrap up this section. I'll see you there…

[1]:	http://devimages.apple.com/downloads/devices/Multiple-Upload-Samples.zip