# Introduction
In this episode you'll add `produce` to your own fastlane. Let's dive right in…
# Pause for Challenge
Your challenge this time is nice and straightforward: 
- Create a new lane in your fastfile
- name it `register`
- give it a description "Ensure app is registered with the Dev Center and App Store Connect"
- Within the lane, add a call to `produce`
- Configure `produce` to include parameters and values for:
	- Your Apple ID
	- Your app's bundle ID
	- Your app's name
For extra credit, add additional parameters for:
- Your team's Dev Center and App Store Connect names (if you belong to more than one team)
	- The base language for the app
	- The current version of the app (you can set this to "1.0" for now).
Alright. Pause the video now, and give that a try. I'll see you on the other side…
# Demo: Challenge Answers
Welcome back! Let's take a look at this:
I open my fastfile and define a new `register` lane. I add a description, and then stub out the produce method.
Now I'll add my parameters. As in your last challenge, you just need to do a little bit of digging through the fastlane document to get the right parameter names.
For the basic challenge, the 3 parameters I need are `username`, `app_identifier` and `app_name`. The syntax here is similar to what you're used to in Swift, and all values in our challenge are strings.  Here's how this looks:
```ruby
  desc "Ensure app is registered with App Store Connect"
  lane :register do
    produce(
      username: "bschick1@mac.com",
      app_identifier: "com.razeware.ChewChewTrain",
      app_name: "Chew Chew Train"
    )
  end
```
Now let's add the extra credit parameters. 
As you saw previously, the team name is a bit more complicated, since technically there are both Dev Center and App Store Connect teams in the mix. To address this, I include both `team_name` and `itc_team_name` params. Finally, I set my `language` to "English" and my `version` to "1.0". 
```ruby
  desc "Ensure app is registered with App Store Connect"
  lane :register do
    produce(
      username: "bschick1@mac.com",
      app_identifier: "com.razeware.ChewChewTrain",
      app_name: "Chew Chew Train",
      team_name: "Brian Schick",
      itc_team_name: "Brian Schick",
      language: "English",
      app_version: "1.0"
    )
  end
```
Great! Now I'll save my work and take my new `register` fastlane a spin:
```ruby
fastlane register
```
Sweet! Since I've given my lane everything it needs to know to run, I'm not prompted at all. And since I previously registered my app in the previous episode, `produce` simply confirms that everything's A-OK on both the Dev Center and in App Store Connect and exits with a helpful summary.
# Conclusion
As you can see, fastlane  `produce` makes registering your app simple and almost instantaneous. Next, you'll learn how this same tool makes adding extended services for your app just as easy. 
See you in the next episode.