# Introduction
So far in this section, we've stepped beyond the box of the App Store and explored several ways that `fastlane` actions can extend and further empower workflows. As you've seen, `fastlane's` native actions encompass a vast amount of functionality beyond well beyond the App Store ecosystem.
But we're not done quite yet. In this episode, we'll take yet another step outside the box to explore the several options open to you if you want to boldly go where `fastlane` doesn't yet go.   
# Lecture
**[Slide 1]** 
`fastlane` is built by and for developers, engineers, and tinkerers. So it probably won't come as a surprise that if and when you encounter a situation `fastlane` can't handle out of the box, you'll have several options awaiting you. Explorers are most definitely very welcome on the fastlane!
## 1. Check available actions first
**[Slide 2]** 
Before gearing up to recreate a new wheel, don't forget to check the list of available actions first: It's easy to overlook actions and assume they're not there. 
**[Slide 3]** 
As a quick example: We just covered Slack notifications, but suppose your team prefers another service. The Notifications sections of the Actions page reveals that out of the box, `fastlane` has actions for HipChat, GroupChat, Flock, Typetalk, Twitter, Mailgun, and even local macOS notifications. This kind of broad coverage is typical of many categories, and means that if you can use one of these supported channels, problem solved!
## Shell commands and Helper lanes
Next, you might ask if you can do what you'd like in the command line. If so, you can likely use fastlane's shell capabilities.
**[Slide 4]** 
Here's a very simple example: In the last episode, I wanted to be able to get a current timestamp and pass that to Slack. There's no native date or time functionality in fastlane, but it was a simple matter to grab that from the shell:
**[Slide 5]** 
If I wanted to be able to use this functionality throughout my project, I could easily create a private lane wrapping this:
**[Slide 6]** 
And from then, I could use this as though it were native to fastlane:
There are natural limits to this approach, but it's a nice first option for things the command line does well.
## Third party plugins
**[Slide 7]** 
If your problem's still not resolved, you next step will likely be to check for existing third party plugins. By the way, this is made possible by an altogether excellent decision by Felix Krause and the `fastlane` team to design `fastlane` as an open, readily extensible platform. Cheers, guys!
**[Slide 8]** 
`fastlane's` comprehensive list of third party plugins is a direct link from the root documentation page. Each action is well-documented, exposes its contributors, actions, overall score, and GitHub source code, with highest scoring items sorted to the top.
**[Slide 9]**
`fastlane` also provides robust command line tools to assist you in finding and installing plugins directly into your project. These are documented in its "Use Plugins" guide \<point to slide\\\\\\\\\\\>


# Demo
## Finding a plugin
<!-- Show search_plugins documentation in browser -->
Let's take a closer look. The action for searching plugins is `search_plugins`. 
You can run this without arguments, but it's usually best to include a specific query. I'll search for plugins related to icons:


```ruby
fastlane search_plugins icon
```


I get a list of several related plugins, sorted by number of downloads. 
I'm especially interested in the second item — "appIcon". I'd like to have `fastlane` automatically generate all my icon sizes as part of the build process. 
<!-- show https://github.com/KrauseFx/fastlane-plugin-appicon in browser-->

When I check its git info, I like what I see. I'll need to install a support library with Homebrew, but that's no problem. 
Let's add it to our project…


## Installing a plugin
I'll first install the listed dependency with Homebrew:
```ruby
brew install graphicsmagick
```
And then I'll add the plugin to my project with fastlane:
```ruby
fastlane add_plugin appicon
```
This creates a new project `Pluginfile` and updates my project `Gemfile`.
Once installed, I can get info about lane use just like with any built-in action:
```ruby
fastlane actions appicon
```


## Using in a lane
<!-- Show Xcode with no icons in Assets.xcassets -->
Let's put this to use. 
<!-- Hide Xcode and show Finder windows -->
As suggested, I place a single 1024 x 1024 `app_icon.png` file in fastlane's `metadata` subfolder. 
<!-- Switch to code editor -> Fastfile -->
Then I create a simple lane calling to wrap the plugin and specify the icon types I want and the path to my project Assets:
```ruby
lane :app_icons do
      appicon(
      appicon_devices: [:iphone, :ios_marketing],
      appicon_path: "ChewChewTrain/Assets.xcassets"
    )
end
```
I'll run my lane:
```ruby
fastlane app_icons
```
and take a look Xcode…  
<!-- show in Xcode -->
Perfect


<!-- Add to build lane -->
Last, I'll add this to my production build lanes. Again, it's nice and easy:
<!-- Add to build_appstore -->

# Lecture
## Crafting your own Plugins
**[Slide 10]**
If you've explored all these options and discover that what you need really hasn't been addressed, it's likely time to host your own party. By which I of course mean, to write your own third-party plugin.
While the details of this are beyond our scope, here are some starting points:
- `fastlane's` "Create you own fastlane plugin" page \<point to slide\> is a good starting point and points to `fastlane` helper actions like the `new_plugin` action that can help you get oriented.
- Consider making an investment in taking your Ruby skills beyond what we've needed in this course. Among other things, you'll need to be comfortable creating and submitting Ruby Gems. 
- Consider cloning the repo of a plugin you use and like, then using this as a starting point. This is a great way to learn both `fastlane` specifics and Ruby coding practices by example. 
# Conclusion
**[Slide 11]** 
`fastlane's` extensible architecture lays the foundations for extending `fastlane` almost anyplace you might like to go with it. Because of this, a wealth of third party plugins can quickly be scanned and integrated directly into your projects. Once integrated, it's easy to forget these plugins are any different from native actions. And if you're ready to take the next step and build your own plugins, the `fastlane` platform and community are ready and waiting…
In the next episode, we'll wrap things up with an exploration of `fastlane` best practices.