# Introduction
Thanks to snapshot, we now have complete sets of screenshots for our app. But since the end game is to create the best possible screenshots for our app, we're not done yet: Now we'll want to put our raw screenshots inside device-specific frames. That's what we'll do in this episode.
# Lecture
## The Hard Way
**[Slide ]** 
Traditionally, placing each screenshot within matching device-specific frameworks isn't technically difficult. It involves either working with a designer or else downloading templates of iOS devices, and then working in an image-processing app like Sketch or Photoshop. Really, this is a repetitive, time-consuming and error prone process, and not a brilliant use of our time.
**[Slide ]** Frameit Documentation Page
Once again, we'll look to fastlane automation to tame this task. The tool we'll reach for this time is `frameit`.  Exactly as its name implies, `frameit`    is designed to wrap device-specific frames around your raw generated screenshots. And it does this with panache.
## Installing ImageMagick
Before you can run `frameit` , you do need to install a helper utility called `ImageMagick`. If you're not familiar with it, `ImageMagick` is a long-time cross-platform command line utility that packs a lot of image processing power. Since you have homebrew installed, installing it's a snap. Simply run 
```bash
brew install imagemagick
```
Go ahead and pause the video and do this now.  I'll wait here :-]
# Pause to Install
# Demo
## Command Line
Welcome back, and thanks for doing that now —  it'll make things cleaner downstream. 
Now in to `frameit`. We'll cover this 2 parts: first, basic usage, and then adding backgrounds and resizing images to App Store specs.
Basic use of `frameit` is a snap. Its documentation page  and other conventions all follow standard fastlane protocol. 
There's one gotcha: When run in the command line, `frameit` recursively finds and attempts to frame all images within the current directory. You can easily correct this by creating a simple lane that includes the screenshot path, or by simply switching to the snapshot directory first.
Otherwise, command line functionality is as simply as running:
```bash
cd fastlane/screenshots
fastlane frameit 
```
After downloading iOS device frames, `frameit` finds and frames each raw screenshot. It adds a new file with an `_framed` suffix, leaving the original images in place. 
## Fastlanes
You'll likely use `frameit` within a lane, and lane usage is clean and simple:
```ruby
lane :frame_test do
  frameit(rose_gold: true, path: "./fastlane/screenshots")
end
```
The critical path parameter takes a path relative to your project root directory. Specifying a color is optional, and `frameit` will fall back to a sensible default if the color specified isn't available for a device type.
Let's take a look at what we get so far:
```bash
fastlane frame_test
```
Frameit steps through my `screenshots` directory, adding an `_framed.png` file for each file. Stepping through, things looks great — sweet!
## Stage Two
The images we get so far are nicely framed but still have 2 issues:
- They're full-sized — nice for marketing materials, but not ok to submit.
- They're also… generic. We might like to add background images and custom titles
To tool for both these issues is the `Framefile.json`. Unlike other fastlane helper files we seen, you need to create this manually and place it in the `.fastlane/screenshots` subdirectory. 
There's a good deal of info on the `frameit` documentation page about this file, and you can also grab both simple and complex examples. We'll work here with a simplified file I've created.
<!-- Show in Code -->
The `default` object logically defines settings to be applied to all screenshots unless overridden. Here, we define our screenshot title's font (path relative to the `screenshots` directory) color, location and padding. We also specify a background image, and tell frameit to include our entire device frame.
You can think of the `data` array as a place for per-screenshot defaults (remembering that if your app is localized, you'll have per-localization instances of each screenshot). These can include screenshot title, title color, keywords, and more. I'll leave this empty here, because we'll set language-specific values.
## Stage Two… and a Half
We're almost there, but there's one last piece to this puzzle. Since we're adding titles to our screenshots, it makes sense to add our title text within our language-specific folders. Frameit lets us add Xcode-standard `.strings` files for this purpose, which fits nicely into standard translator workflows.
In each language's subdirectory, we'll add a `title.strings` file. We need to leave a blank line at the top, and then we simply add a per-screenshot filter that uniquely id's each image, and a matching title. I'll add this to our US English directory, and for fun, I'll create a "de-DE" directory for German and place a German version in it.
Last, I'll return to my Snapfile and set languages array to include German.
## Putting it all Together
Alright. Let's take a look at what we get for this effort:
```bash
fastlane frame_test
```
When we ran this a moment ago, we got just the device frames and at full resolution. This time, we get per-screenshot titles in our chosen font and color, our custom background image. We now also get a separate German directory that has our German titles. Sweet!
# Conclusion
As you've seen, `frameit` setup was a bit more involved. But as we saw with `snapshot`, in return for your setup efforts, you get a mountain of functionality and time-savings that will reward you over time.
In the next episode, you'll learn how to complete the cycle and deliver your sweet screenshots to the App Store, via a fastlane tool called… `deliver`. See you there…