# Introduction
In this episode, it's your turn to integrate `snapshot` directly into your sample project.  
# Introducing the Challenge
## Basic Challenge
Your challenge is to set up `snapshot` in our sample project:
- In Xcode, add a  target and scheme to the project. Name both `Fastlane Snapshots`.
- initialize `snapshot` in Terminal.
- In Xcode, add `SnapshotHelper.swift` to your `Fastlane Snapshots` test target, and then update your `Fastlane Snapshots.swift` file's `setUp()` method to call `setupSnapshot()`. 
- Create a UI Test method and record a step-through of the app's scenes within it.
- Insert method calls inside your UI Test method to generate snapshots of each screen.
Try running `snapshot` in the command line when you're done.
## Advanced Challenge
Your advanced challenge is to customize snapshot. It has 2 parts:
First,  update  `../fastlane/Snapfile` so that it
- Sets devices to iPhone models SE, X,  XS,  XS Max and XR.
- Sets languages to US English and German
- Sets the scheme to `Fastlane Snapshots`, and suppresess automatic presentation of the html summary page.
Second, in `Fastfile` update your `release` lane so that it calls `snapshot` after it runs precheck.
When you're done, run the release lane.
All right! You have your challenges. Feel free to return to the last episode if you'd like a review of the snapshot setup steps. And if you get stuck, remember that we'll review these steps together once you're done. Pause the video now, and have fun! I'll see you when you're done.
# Pause for Challenge


# Demo: Challenge Answers
Welcome back. Let's walk through this together…
## Basic Challenge
In Xcode, I stay by creating a new iOS UI Testing Bundle target and name it  `Fastlane Snapshots`. Then I create a new linked Scheme of the same name, bring up its build settings, and ensure "Run" is checked in its Build settings.


Now in Terminal, I run `fastlane snapshot init` to create project `snapshot` assets.
I then return to Xcode and add the generated `SnapshotHelper.swift` to our `Fastlane Snapshots` target.
Then I open the `FastlaneSnapshots` test file, and configure the `setUp()` method to set up snapshots. I'll grab this code from Terminal for simplicity.
```swift
    let app = XCUIApplication()
    setupSnapshot(app)
    app.launch()
```
Last, in this same file, I create a  `testSnapshot()` method. 


With my cursor on a blank line inside the method, I initiate recording and …Oops… I'll need to set our new target's executable to ChewChewTrain. I'll fix that now.
Now I initiate recording…


…and step through each screen I want to capture in a screenshot. 
I stop recording and clean any unwanted recording artifacts. 
And last, I insert calls to`snapshot()` each time I want the camera to shoot, giving each snapshot the desired name.
That completes our Xcode setup.
## Trying it out
That's as manually intensive as fastlane gets, and it's easy to miss a step or two. If you had any difficulties, please pause the video now, correct them, and then run your lane.
# Pause


# Resume
OK. I'll save my changes then run snapshot:
```swift
fastlane snapshot
```
Since we haven't set up our Snapfile yet, I'm prompted to select a scheme, and then `snapshot` does some serious work.


When it finishes, a summary web page displays snapshots for the default devices and languages (again, thanks to `fastlane's` sensible defaults). 
And Terminal, I see the usual clean summary (note that since we don't yet have a Snapfile, default devices and languages were used). 


## Advanced Challenge
Now on to the advanced challenge of customizing `snapshot`:
I open `Snapfile` in my code editor, then set up its device and language arrays:
```ruby
devices([
"iPhone 8 Plus", 
"iPhone SE", 
"iPhone Xs", 
"iPhone Xs Max"
])

languages([
  "en-US",
  "de-DE",
])
```
Then I inform snapshot which scheme to use and suppress automatic display of the summary page:


```ruby
scheme "Fastlane Snapshots" 
skip_open_summary true
```


Now I open `Fastfile`, find the `release` lane we previously created, and append a call to `snapshot`:
```ruby
  lane :release do
    precheck
    snapshot
  end
```
I make sure both files are saved and I'm done.
## Trying it Out
Once again, please take a moment to update your files if you hit any snags, and then run your lane.
# Pause


# Resume
OK. Let’s take our updated release lane for a spin:
```bash
fastlane release
```
This time, we're not prompted to select a scheme. Our `release` lane first checks for any App Store issues, then assembles all our our screenshots. And since we now specify multiple languages, our screenshots will now be organized into separate, named folders for each. 
<!-- Wait for process to complete -->

open
This time, our summary shows our selected devices and languages. We also specified that we didn't want the summary web page to display. However, note that it's still present in the `screenshots` directory.
<!-- Show in Finder and open -->

## One last thing
Before we wrap up, I'd like to show you one last thing that might save you headaches. 
Because fastlane uses Xcode's simulators to generate its snapshots, problems can sneak up with simulators, and when they do, they can be hard to diagnose. One way to prevent these is to force clear them each time.
Similarly, I like to clear out my previous screenshots entirely before I begin creating a new set. That way I can be sure that outdated screenshots can't sneak into my App Store submissions. 
To address both of these issues, you can add these additional settings to your project `Snapfile`: 
```ruby
stop_after_first_error true
erase_simulator true
clear_previous_screenshots true
reinstall_app true
```
You won't need these settings for this course, but I think you'll find they can be helpful in real world production usage.


# Conclusion
OK. That wraps up our `snapshot` challenge. As you've seen, `snapshot` does an amazing amount on our behalf. Because of the hoops it has to jump through to be able to automate this process, setup is more involved than with other fastlane actions. But that additional up front work is more than repaid the first time you run it. And things will only get better over the rest of this section.
Speaking of which… in the next episode, I'll show you how to automatically inset your screenshots in device frames, and even add optional captions with custom fonts and background images to each one. See you there!