# Intro
In Section 1, you learned how fastlane can automatically manage your personal code signing credentials via the actions `cert` and `sigh`. 
As you saw, these are robust, feature-complete, and powerful tools capable of doing a great deal to streamline how you manage your code signing assets. However, there's a core problem here, and interestingly, it has nothing to do with the tools themselves. instead, it has to do with the approach to code signing we've all used for year. 
As it turns out, fastlane has an ambitious plan to change this. In this episode, you'll learn how fastlane proposes to make a deep Copernican Shift in the way iOS teams manage their code signing credentials. So fasten your seatbelts, because our fastlane are about to get a lot… faster!
# Lecture
`fastlane's` critique of traditional code signing is based on a simple observation: Code signing assets are fundamentally tied to *individuals*. But modern iOS development typically takes place in *teams*.  Everything else we'll learn in the next few springs directly from this simple kernel.
## The Trouble with Tribbles
**[Slide ]** 
Think of everything we've done so far with `cert` and `sigh`. These tools elegantly automated obtaining, storing, managing these resources. And yet, even with all that, the Certificates and profiles `cert` and `sigh` deliver are still the property of one individual developer. They're stored on his or her developer's machine, and tied to their account.
This works fine when you're a team of one. But what happens as your team grows? As each new team member is brought on board, they each have their own development machines, iOS devices, and most importantly, their individual signing requests, certificates, and keys. 
**[Slide ]** 
It's easy to see why the process developed this way historically. And this schema bears similarities to how Apple also approaches other common cloud assets like music, photos, bookmarks, and more. The problem is that when we develop on teams, we naturally want to hoist our processes and thinking from an "I am an Island" worldview to a "there's no team without me" perspective. Oops, I mean, "there no I in team". 
Tools like git, Jira, Slack, and Trello and many more reflect this team perspective. Yes, we're all still individuals. But the center of gravity shifts to a centralized, team-centric view. At a certain point in any team's life, it's no longer OK to say "Go ask Jill… I think she's got those files". Teams need a consistency and centralization that individual-centric approaches don't support well.
**[Slide ]** Fastlane's the Problem image
Viewed from this perspective, individualizing code signing assets can be seen as inherently brittle in a team context. If every developer on a team has their own code signing assets and iOS devices, provisioning profiles (which map code signing apps to sets of devices) will rapidly multiply. 
**[Slide ]** Tribbles!
Developers will join and leave projects, credentials get lost or expire or  become corrupted, and the team's collection of developer devices can proliferate like a tribe of tribbles. Xcode can compound this by occasionally invalidating all installed provisioning profiles. Maybe worst of all, every team developer who can submit changes needs full access to App Store Connect, raising the possibility that a single tired developer's error might inadvertently cause an entire team real headaches.
**[Slide ]** Copernicus
`fastlane` takes a step back and suggests a change that's both simple and profound: Instead of constantly struggling to manage individual-based assets in sync, why not make the team the core of this system? Specifically, why not create a single set of code signing assets, store them centrally, and have each team member download and use these everywhere? At the least, it's a powerful and intriguing idea. But how would it work?
**[Slide ]** Code Signing Guide site [https://codesigning.guide][1]
Fastlane lays out its vision for this new schema in its Code Signing Guide. It's short and to the point, and well worth checking out. 
**[Slide ]** Git
Where would we store these team-based assets so that they're both secure and transparently accessible? `fastlane's`  answer is to turn to the same tool that's solved this for team code and other assets: git. Git is centralized, secure, repos can (and must in this case) be private, and of course, it excels as a central point for distributable team assets.
If we could store a single set of assets this way and distribute them transparently to team members whenever they needed them, Apple's requirements will still be fulfilled. But now, instead of an exploding set of Tribbles, we'd just have a single cuddly Tribble to manage. I shall call mine Fluffy :)
**[Slide ]** 
Here's how this workflow would work:
1. A team manager creates a new, *private* Git repo.
2. New private keys, profiles and certificates are obtained from Apple, encrypted and stored in the private repo. 
3. Each team member imports the certificates and private keys to their Keychain, and the provisioning profiles are copied to their Libraries.
## Really?
**[Slide ]** A Thinker… thinking
Personally, when I first encountered this idea, I was intrigued and… nervous. Do I really want to store my core signing assets — including my *private* code signing key — in the cloud? Fastlane does a nice job of clarifying and evaluating the potential security risks or this approach. Here's a summary:
**[Slide ]** 
1. If you follow fastlane's recommendations, your git repo storing your critical assets will be private. Further, unless you intentionally disable default functionality, all code-signing assets will automatically be OpenSSL-encrypted with a passphrase as they're being stored in the cloud. 
2. It's worth a reminder that we all rely on git every day to keep our critical code and virtually all other team assets safe, so it's likely not a significant leap to further trust them with our code signing assets. if we're willing to trust our intellectual property to git, why not the assets we use to code sign them?
2. But what if an attacker somehow stole a private key? To code sign your app, they'd also need to break into your separate project code repository. Further, to get an app code-signed by Apple they'd need to submit it for review, requiring they get your App Store Connect credentials, and they aren't in this git repo. Similar safeties hold for attempts to install a signed application onto ad hoc iOS devices, where the attacker would again need additional assets not in this repo.  
	Enterprise profiles do present more risk, and there *is* a possibility an attacker could distribute a signed application with the organization's name. Even here, however, the enterprise certificate could simply revoked, instantly breaking any illicitly-modified apps.
3. As a final precaution, fastlane advises using the best practice of having every team member enable 2 factor git authentication. This provides a final layer of security, and is, of course, equally advisable for all your project git repos. 
## The Verdict
**[Slide ]** 
So what's the verdict?
There's no absolute answer, of course. There's finite risk with any code-signing approach, including the individual-based one we've all used by default. Each developer and team must find their own balance between security, convenience and efficiency. 
Personally, I feel that any added risk here is minimal, and that potential gains in team efficiency are highly compelling. I'm in.
The good news is that while fastlane believes this is a better approach in *most* cases, it doesn't push you. You can build complete fastlane workflows using traditional individual credentials, or you can adopt team-based code-signing. The choice is yours, plain and simple.
# Conclusion
In the next episode, you'll meet `match` — the fastlane action that powers fastlane's new team-based code signing approach. See you there!

[1]:	https://codesigning.guide