# Introduction
In this episode you'll first learn about the structure of a lane in fastfile. And then you'll get your first chance to go hands on with fastlane, as you create you first lane and then put it to use.
# Lecture
## Introducing the Lane
**[Slide ]** Lanes
In fastlane, the lane is the key that ties together and unlocks the power of individual actions. Think of a lane as a string of any number of fastlane actions, complete with branching logic, decision-making, and other intelligent tools. Each lane can be customized to whatever task you'd like it to perform. And you're not limited to just one monolithic lane — you can create any number of task-specific lanes for your, customizing each to your project-specific needs and your heart's content.
Lanes are defined in the **Fastfile** in the root directory of a Swift project. Although their Ruby underpinnings may initially look a bit foreign, I'll walk you through everything you need to know to get going. And I'm confident you'll soon feel quite comfortable crafting your own lanes. Let's take a closer look:
## A Lane's Anatomy
<!-- Get these slids from the previous 1.6 -->
**[Slide ]** A Sample Fastfile
Here's a sample Fastfile. Out of the box, we can see that its Ruby code differs substantially from that of Swift. Most noticeably, Ruby is **not** a C-style language — no curly brackets or keywords like var, let, func here! 
**[Slide ]** Platforms and Lanes
But the structure here is immediately clear: You can see immediately that there's a block that runs when the platform is iOS, and that two lanes — named "first" and "second" — are defined here. Syntactically, "platform" and "lane" are Ruby methods (note that Ruby generally doesn't use parentheses in method calls, in keeping with its preferred clean, bracket-less approach). 
**[Slide ]** Do Blocks
In place of curly brackets, Ruby use do - end pairings to denote blocks. Coming from a C-style language, this can look strange, but it's a logical choice that's easy to understand.
**[Slide ]** Symbols
Ruby Symbols are interesting creatures, and maybe the thing likely to look most alien when first encountering Ruby. For our purposes, you can think of them as a combination of defined-in-place let constants and enum cases. You'll see these in fast files quite often, and in particular, whenever you're selecting a target platform for a set of lanes, and when you're defining a lane's name.
**[Slide ]** Action Methods
Within a given lane, you call fastlane actions in the order you want them to run. Each invocation of an action is another Ruby method call, and you're able to include whatever parameters an action's method supports to further tune its performance.
**[Slide ]** Comments
Last,  inline comments in Ruby are prefaced with a simple hash mark. Nice and simple!
# Introducing the Challenge
**[Challenge Slide ]**
OK. It's time for your first challenge. 
- Start by opening `.fastlane/Fastfile` in your code editor. Since this file doesn't have a `.rb` extension as most Ruby files do, you'll likely need to manually set your editor to use Ruby syntax highlighting. 
- The default file has a lot of boilerplate code. Replace everything with
```ruby
default_platform(:ios)

platform :ios do

end
```
- Within the `platform :ios` block, create a new lane, and name it `:register_app`.
- Inside this lane, add a single call to `produce`. You don't need to include any parameters yet.
That's it for the basic challenge. Feel free to refer back to our earlier slides for lane syntax examples.
We'll also have advanced challenges throughout this course, and I strongly encourage you to do them as well. Here, your advanced challenge is: 
- include parameters for username, app identifier, app name, and — if you belong to more than one development team — your App Store Connect and Developer Portal team names.
We did this in the command line in the last episode, but the challenge here will be to find and use the correct lane parameters for these, rather than the command line options we used previously. 
By the way, Ruby syntax for calling functions with parameters is very close to Swift's. For example, If I have a Ruby function `foo` that takes params `bar` and `bas`, I can invoke this either as:
```ruby
foo(bar: true, bas: "some value")
```
or:
```ruby
foo(
  bar: true,
  bas: "some value"
)
```
OK. Please the video now and give that a try. If you get stuck, don't worry. Give it your best shot, and we'll review everything when you're done. See you on the other side…
# Pause for Challenge
# Demo: Challenge Answers
## Basic Challenge
Welcome back! Let's take a look at this together:
- I start by opening the default Fastfile in my code editor. I need to manually set the syntax to Ruby since the file lacks an extension. This is different in various editors, but the principle is consistent. Here in VSCode, I'll just click the language affordance and select Ruby. Great.
- Now I remove the boilerplate code so I have a clean starting point. Our code will run inside the `platform :ios` block. If we had app targets for another Apple platform — say watchOS — we'd add a separate `platform :watchos` for them.
- Now I create a new lane and name it `:register_app`. From here on out, I can run my lane in the command line — or call it from other lanes — simply by referring to it by this name.
	```ruby
	lane :register_app do

	end
	```
- Finally, I'll add a call to `produce`. 
	```ruby
	lane :register_app do
	  produce
	end
	```
	I think you can see that while Ruby syntax is decidedly different from Swift's C-style curly bracket approach, it's clean and elegant. And as with Swift, it lets you work nicely with the "metal" of your code.
All right. Let's switch over the Terminal and go for a spin in our new fastlane:
```ruby
fastlane register_app
```
As you can see, fastlane runs our lane, our lane runs produce, and produce goes to work for us. We're still prompted for our creds, which we'll take care of in a moment. And notice that since we previously registered our app (in the command line), `produce` intelligently reports back that there's nothing to do. Not bad!
If you didn't run your lane previously — or if you had errors — go ahead and pause your video and try it out now.
## Advanced Challenge
On to our advanced challenge. The main hurdle here was likely honing in on the lane-specific parameters and not accidentally using command line options. The documentation needed is found in the `Parameters` section at the very bottom of `produce`'s documentation. This, once again, is a common pattern you'll see repeated across fastlane actions. It's also worth mentioning that — as when you're learning new Swift frameworks — a key skill is learning to use fastlane's generally excellent documentation. I'll encourage you to do this in our challenges throughout this course.
Here's how my lane looks with our parameters entered:
```ruby
  lane :register_app do
    produce(
      username: "bschick1@mac.com",
      app_identifier: "com.razeware.ChewChewTrain",
      app_name: "Chew Chew Train",
      team_name: "Brian Schick",
      itc_team_name: "Brian Schick"
    )
  end
```
You might note that the parameter names in this case exactly matched their equivalent command line options. While that's usually the case, there are exceptions, so heads up.
OK. I'll save my changes and run my lane again. This time, you can see that I'm not prompted for any additional info, and my command line feedback is now clearer. I can see the results of the API calls to both the Dev Center and App Store Connect.
Once again, if you haven't done so already, please take a moment to make these changes (obviously replacing my username and team names with your own) and try this out for yourself now, before moving on.
One last thing: …………
<!-- Put a note here about starter/final projects after confirming team conventions. -->
# Conclusion
Congratulations! You've created your first lane. We're not setting any world speed records for iOS automation, but it's a nice start that you'll build on. You're also getting a good sense of fastlane's conventions and its cast of main characters. 
In the next episode, you'll learn how fastlane can automate management of your developer private keys, signing requests and certificates. See you there…

