# Introduction
Your Fastfile lanes are beginning to take on more shape. In this episode, I'll show you some helpful ways to add more power to them.
# Lecture
## Switching Lanes
So far, you've created a handful of lanes. Individually, each zips along nicely. But a highway's not a highway if we can't switch lanes when we want to. Let's see how to make this happen:
In the challenge you just completed, you first created a  `sync_all_development` lane, and then a separate `sync_device_info` lane. It makes sense to keep these actions in separate lanes. However, what I'd really like is to add the functionality of my `sync_device_info` directly into my `sync_all_development` lane.
**[Slide1 ]**
Fastlane makes this drop dead simple: All you need to do to call a lane is to invoke it by name:
**[Slide 2]** 
Now when I run the sync\_all\_development lane, fastlane switches lanes automatically on my behalf, 
**[Slide 3]**
Needless to say, this small addition immediately adds vast amounts of power to our lanes. We're now free to compose lanes as we'd compose functions. The only inherent limitation is that if you can't call lanes inside a different platform grouping (in this course, all our lanes are within a single :iOS group, so this won't affect us here). Otherwise, you're free to build and integrate lanes as you see fit.
## Control Flow
Let's review other ways to add power to your lanes:
**[Slide 4]** 
You can add conditional logic much as you do in Swift. Ruby has a rich collection of flow control operators, much like Swift. I'll focus on simple if blocks. Except for the the lack of Swift's C-style bracketing, these are immediately intuitive.
**[Slide 5]** 
You can stop executing a lane before it reaches its end with the `next` keyword:
## Variables
**[Slide 6]** 
You can define and use variables in your lanes. To declare a variable, simply assign it a variable. Using the variable, as well as variable scoping, shouldn't surprise you at all:
## Returning values
**[Slide 7]** 
To return a value from a lane, simply place it in the last line of the lane:
**[Slide 8]** 
You can then use this return value as you would any other value:
## Accepting parameters
**[Slide 9]** 
You can configure any lane to accept input like this:
**[Slide 10]** 
You can call this lane with ad hoc parameters named whatever you'd like:
**[Slide 11]** 
And then process the input list so:
## Interactions
As your lanes grow in power, you may want to get user input and branch off of that. 
**[Slide 12]** 
fastlane provides methods to present information to users:
**[Slide 13]** 
You can also prompt users for input and branch depending on their response:
**[Slide 14]** 
… and confirm / branch depending on what's entered:
# Conclusion
fastlane's lanes are flexible and powerful, ready to do anything you'll want them to do. Ultimately, you have the full power of Ruby plus everything fastlane has to offer at your disposal. And maybe nicest of all, the lane structure makes it easy to tinker and learn, much like Swift playgrounds do.
In the next episode, I'll explain some best practices on using fastlane in the command line versus within lanes, along with several tips on getting the best out of both environments. See you there!