# Introduction
In this episode, you'll put your new knowledge of `gym` into practice. You'll leverage and extend the custom lanes that you've already created, and integrate them with `gym`. Let's dive right in!
# Introducing the Challenge
You've now gotten a good look at how `gym` can automate and streamline how you build your apps to distribute to testers. Now, it's your turn to integrate `gym` into your growing set of custom lanes. Once again, you'll be working in your project `Fastfile`. 
## Creating a new helper lane
**[Slide ]** 
Your first challenge will be to create a new helper lane. You previous created the `sync_for_development` lane. After ensuring your app and device info was updated on the Developer Portal, it then synced, decrypted, and stored your team's *development* credentials to your mac. In the process, it also made these team *development* credentials active.
**[Slide ]** 
As you know, however, to submit your app to iTunes Connect for testing, you need to instead sync and use your team's *app store* credentials. So your first task is to create a new lane called `sync_for_appstore` that does just that. It should parallel your existing `sync_for_development` lane, and simply set the needed match `type` parameter.
## Create a new export lane
**[Slide ]** Challenge Slide
The heart of your challenge is to create a new lane that will leverage your helper lane and then call `gym` to build an archive of your app and submit it to iTunes Connect for test distribution. Here are the details:
- Name the new lane `export_for_itunes_connect`
- Inside your lane, first call your new helper lane to prepare everything for distribution.
- Then, call `gym` to do the heavy lifting. 
- Set gym's output directory to `export_iTunesConnect`. This will avoid cluttering your project folder.
- Set gym's export method to `app_store`, which is the required method for using iTunes Connect.
## Bonus Challenge
Our bonus challenge this time is a bit more challenging. You'll create a similar pair of lanes, but you'll design these for ad hoc distribution, like you'd use to distribute your app to testers using HockeyApp or Crashalytics, rather than iTunes Connect.
- First, create an additional helper lane called `sync_for_adhoc` and update its call to match to use team ad hoc credentials.
- Then, create a new `export_adhoc` lane. Inside this lane, first call your new ad hoc helper lane. Then call gym, but this time see its output directory to `Export_AdHoc` and call the appropriate export method.
All right! Go ahead and pause the video and give that a try. Have fun, and I'll see you when you're done!
# Pause for Challenge
# Demo: Challenge Answers
Welcome back. I hope that was a fun challenge. Let's review everything…
For the main challenge, I'll open my Fastfile and then duplicate my `sync_for_development` lane. I'll name this `sync_for_appstore`, and then I'll update the match method's `type` to `appstore`. 
Then I'll create a brand new lane and I'll call it `export_for_itunes_connect`. Inside this, I'll first call my `sync_app_info` lane. then I'll call gym. A quick scan of gym's documentation shows me that the parameters I need are `output_directory` and `export_method`, so I add these to my method call. I set the output directory to `Export_iTunesConnect`. After scanning the documentation again, I see that the export method I need is `app-store`, so I enter this. The completes my main challenge. (note that this differs from the hyphen less `appstore` value we needed for `match`. No API's perfect, but if you ever get something like this wrong, you'll get a clear error message in Terminal.
With this in place, I'm ready for the bonus challenge. I create another duplicate of my  `sync_for_development` lane and name it `sync_for_adhoc `, and then I set match's `type` to `adhoc`. 
I then duplicate my `export_for_itunes_connect` lane, naming my copy `export_adhoc`. I replace my call to `sync_for_appstore` with `sync_for_adhoc`. This will sync my ad hoc team creds, and cause them to be used by `gym`.
Now I need to update the 2 parameters `gym` uses. I update the output directory to `Export_AdHoc`. Another quick check in the documentation tells me my export method needs to be `ad-hoc`, so I set this as well. And finally, I save everything.
## Trying it out
Your lanes are starting to take shape nicely. Let's head out for a drive on your new lanes. First, I'll run:
```ruby
fastlane export_for_itunes_connect 
```
It's pretty sweet watching how much work fastlane is now doing on your behalf. Once everything completes, you should see a nice new `Export_iTunesConnect` folder in your project directory, with your shiny new distributable assets inside.
Now I'll run 
```ruby
fastlane export_adhoc
```
Again, fastlane goes to town on your behalf, this time briskly syncing and using team assets and building everything for an ad hoc environment. Think back to the number of steps this involved — this is pretty sweet, right? When everything finishes, your new assets are in their own  `Export_AdHoc` folder.
# Conclusion
You did a lot in this episode, and your lanes are starting to get nimble and powerful. 
In the next episode, we'll take a look at the next step in the process: Distributing your shiny new builds to your testers. See you there!