# Intro
Enough theory; it’s time to dive in. We’ll start by installing fastlane.
# The fastlane Site

<!-- 


Need to add an overview of fastlane's design and approach, mentioning Ruby and starship





 -->





We'll start with a quick introduction to fastlane’s website, which is located at [fastlane.tools][1]. 
**[Slide 1]**
fastlane's home page has a nice summary of many of tool’s key capabilities, and it's perusing when you get a chance. Right now, though, we'll focus on its **Docs** section. You can get here either by the link at the top right of the landing page, or by going directly to [docs.fastlane.tools][2].
**[Slide 2]**
This is the home of the fastlane project’s own documentation. While we’re here, it’s worth a quick shout out that fastlane may also be used with both Android and cross-platform tools like Flutter and React Native. Naturally, we'll of course focus solely on fastlane for iOS in this course. 
You'll also find a lot of helpful information here about fastlane's actions, plugins, integrations, best practices, and much more. Much of this information will become increasingly useful as you gain experience with the basics of this tool. 
One last note before we roll up our sleeves: You'll find the rest of this episode —and in fact this entire course — involves a lot of work with Terminal and the command line. If you're not particularly comfortable working in this environment, you might want to check out our short **Command Line Basics** video course. 
# Demo: Installing Xcode Command-line Tools
Fastlane is a command line-centric tool. It's available only on mac, and like many mac command line utilities, it's built with the Ruby programming language. (More on this in a moment). It has several dependencies, and we'll begin by making sure these are properly installed on your development mac.
We'll start by making sure Xcode's Command-line tools are properly installed. Open Xcode, choose Preferences, and select the Locations tab. Find the  Command Line Tools option, and make sure that your current version of Xcode is selected. We'll be using Xcode 10.1 throughout this course, so I've selected this here. I'd recommend that you do this as well if possible. You can go ahead and quit Xcode now — we won't be needing it for awhile.
Open up your Terminal app (if you don't have a preferred Terminal app, Apple's provided Terminal.app will work nicely for everything we'll do in this course. I'll be using the excellent iTerm app throughout this course.
Let's quickly confirm that Xcode's Command Tools are correctly installed by entering:
```bash
xcode-select --print-path
```
If you see the path to your copy of Xcode  here, you're good to go. If you have more than one copy of Xcode installed, take a moment to ensure that the path shown here matches your most recent copy of Xcode.
# Interlude: Homebrew
**[Slide 3]**
Great! Next, we'll need to make sure Homebrew is installed and working properly on your mac. If you're not familiar with Homebrew, it's a brilliant and powerful tool that itself depends on Xcode's Command line tools, and enables you to install a vast world of free, open-source low-level languages and command-line utilities for your mac. We'll use it in a moment to install Git and fastlane. You can check out Homebrew's homepage at [brew.sh][3] for more information.
# Demo: Installing/Verifying Homebrew
if you haven't yet installed Homebrew, execute the following command to install Homebrew, being sure to press `Return` when you're prompted.
```bash
/usr/bin/ruby -e "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/master/install)"
```
Now, whether you just installed Homebrew or not, run:
```bash
brew update
brew doctor
```
One of the great features of Homebrew is that it performs deep health checks on itself and intelligently report or repair any damage. It's always a good idea to run these commands before installing apps via Homebrew. 
By the way, if you hit any snags installing Homebrew, check out [docs.brew.sh/Troubleshooting][4].
# Demo: Installing Git
Next, we'll confirm that git's installed. Execute:
```bash
git --version
```
…which returns the version of git on your mac if it's currently installed. If you don't have git installed, we'll quickly take care of that via Homebrew, like so:
```bash
brew install git
```
# Interlude:
**[Slide 4]**
By the way, if you're new to git, I'd highly recommend our video course **Beginning Git** by Sam Davies. It's a great way to get quickly demystify and get up to speed with the basics of this indispensable tool.
<!-- Should we add any Ruby checking here?-->
# Demo: Installing fastlane
We've gotten the preliminaries out of the way, and it's time to install fastlane itself. We'll use Homebrew once again to do this. Run the following command:
```bash
brew cask install fastlane 
```
Once this completes, the fastlane core tools will be installed.
By the way, if you already had fastlane installed, now is a good time to make sure it's up to date, since it gets updated by the team quite frequently. To do this, simply run:
```bash
fastlane update_fastlane
```
# Interlude: Chew Chew Train
That was a lot of work, but it gets all the preliminaries out of the way. Now it's time to briefly introduce our project. If you haven't already, install the Materials for this course and
<!-- Finish preceding ¶ making sure it complies with RW standards -->
Chew Chew Train is the app our friend Devon is developing. It's a warm-hearted — but maybe just slightly confused — app that takes a fresh spin on training. It's central premise is that every dog should get a nice treat every time you ask it to do anything, regardless of the result. We understand that a lot of fairly rotund and happy — but possibly not so well-trained — dogs really like its motto of "Always Be Chewing".
# Demo: Initializing fastlane in our project
We'll take a closer look at the app a bit later on. For now, make sure it's installed where you'd like, and navigate to the project's root directory in Terminal:
```bash
cd <directory path>
```
You've already installed fastlane on your mac; now it's time to initialize it for your project. Execute this command:
```bash
fastlane init
```
The initialization script analyzes your project and present you with a set options that let you choose standard configurations to start with. We'll choose 4-manual. Do this now, and hit `Enter` as you're prompted. 
<!-- Self: Test all 4 options. It looks like choosing 4 bypasses entering our Apple ID. Decide if that's a good thing (to be deferred to maybe Episode 4) or if it's better to do that here. -->
Great! Fastlane is now initialized for your project. Let's do a quick flyover of what it just did. Enter:
```bash
ls -la
```
…to see what's been installed in your project directory.  There's a Gemfile, which contains Ruby-centric information about fastlane itself, and a new fastlane directory. Navigate to this directory and have a look around
```bash
cd fastlane
ls -la
```
There are two configuration files here — Appfile and Fastfile (you'll add more throughout this course). The most important of these is the Fastfile, which you'll become quite familiar with. For now, the main thing to know is that the Fastfile contains custom scripts — called "lanes" — you can invoke by name to do your bidding for you. Most of fastlane's power lies in these lanes.
# Interlude: Why not Swift?
That wraps up our installation of fastlane. Before we move on, though, there's one last thing to explain.
**[Slide 5]**
If you review the Setup instructions on the fastlane site, you might notice that there are actually *two* options for initializing fastlane in your project — a standard one (which uses fastlane's native Ruby), and a beta Swift configuration. If you're the curious type, you might note that we've opted — perhaps surprisingly — for the standard Ruby version. 
As a Swift developer, that might strike you as strange. Also, we at Ray Wenderlich love dancing on or at least very near the bleeding edge of technology — after all, that's where the fun stuff is. So why Ruby?
The answer is that although fastlane has rolled out a set of beta Swift tools, fastlane's author, Felix Krause, let us know that they don't recommend using this, as the Swift project hasn't taken off as they'd hoped, and as a result the tool isn't feature complete and they're putting their ongoing efforts into the core Ruby implementation of the tool. And one last thing: virtually all the online resources and examples you'll find for fastlane are almost universally in Ruby.
So, we'll use Ruby throughout this course. The good news is that this honestly isn't that big a deal. We'll use Ruby to write and customize our fastlane actions, and we'll do this in Terminal. Ruby's syntax isn't C-based like Swift's and Objective C's, but it's modern, expressive, and well suited to a scripting language. Whenever we encounter Ruby syntax you haven't explain, we'll briefly explain
And, of course, rest assured this won't have any effects on your Xcode projects, which will remain purely Swifty. 
# Conclusion
We've covered quite a lot, but in the process, you've installed fastlane and integrated it into your project. 
in the next episode, we'll meet fastlane's tool **cert** and see firsthand how this can help you manage your App Store Certificates. See you there…





[1]:	https://fastlane.tools
[2]:	https://docs.fastlane.tools
[3]:	https://brew.sh
[4]:	https://docs.brew.sh/Troubleshooting