# Intro
In this episode, you'll extend the basic lane you created earlier to include the `cert` and `sigh`. Let's head down to our mad scientist's laboratory and do some damage…
# Introducing the Challenge
**[Challenge Slide ]**
## Basic Challenge
Your challenge this time is to:
- Create a second lane and name it `get_dev_certs`.
- Inside this, call `cert` and include parameters and values for user name and team name.
- Next, call `sigh`, and again configure it with `user name`, `team name`, and `app_identifier` (which is the parameter name for the bundle ID). 
- Last, set both actions to use *development*  mode.
- Save your work and run your lane in terminal to check it out.
## - Bonus Chalenge
Here's your advanced challenge:
It's redundant to have to set identical each action method separately, and this will quickly escalate out of control as your Fastfile grows in size and complexity. 
Fastlane provides a Ruby configuration inside the `fastlane` subdirectory called `Appfile`. Its job is to hold core app info so that you don't have to re-enter it, either in the command line or in your lanes. 
Your advanced challenge is to:
- Open this file, view the  documentation file referenced in the boilerplate code, and then add these configuration items:
	- `app_identifier`
	- `apple_id`
	- `team_id`
- Remove the equivalent parameters from `cert` and `sigh` in your `get_dev_certs` lanes, since you won't need them any more. 
- And finally, run your lane in Terminal again.
There's your mission. If you need help getting the parameter names needed, remember to use either the command line or online documentation.
Pause the video now and give this a try. If you get stuck, don't worry… we'll review everything in a moment.
# Pause for Challenge
# Demo
How'd that go? Let's take a look at this together.
## Basic Challenge
I start by opening my Fastfile. I confirm that its syntax is set to Ruby, 
<!-- Show in Finder then open into code editor and set syntax to Ruby -->
then stub out a `:get_dev_certs` lane.
```ruby
  lane :get_dev_certs do

  end
```

Next, I call cert and specify `username` and `team_name`:
```ruby
  lane :get_dev_certs do
    cert(
      username: "bschick1@mac.com",
      team_name: "Brian Schick"
    )
  end 
```

Now I call sigh, repeating the same 2 parameters and adding in an `app_identifier`:
```ruby
  lane :get_dev_certs do
    cert(
      username: "bschick1@mac.com",
      team_name: "Brian Schick"
    )
    sigh(
      username: "bschick1@mac.com",
      team_name: "Brian Schick",
      app_identifier: "com.razeware.chew"
    )
  end 
```

I add the `development` parameter and set it to true in both functions 
```ruby
  lane :get_dev_certs do
    cert(
      username: "bschick1@mac.com",
      team_name: "Brian Schick",
      development: true
    )
    sigh(
      username: "bschick1@mac.com",
      team_name: "Brian Schick",
      app_identifier: "com.razeware.chew",
      development: true
    )
  end 
```
And last, I save my changes 
and head over to Terminal to go for a spin on my spiffy new lane: 
```ruby
fastlane get_dev_certs
```

Sweet! My lane does a nice chunk of work for me with just that one command. We're still laying down the basics, but I think you can start to get a sense of how helpful this kind of automation can be. 
Don't forget to pause the video if you need to take a moment to redo any of this yourself.


## Advanced Challenge
For our advanced challenge. I open the `fastfile/Appfile`, 
and then I also open the `Appfile` documentation page included in the helpful boilerplate text.
<!-- Open https://docs.fastlane.tools/advanced/#appfile in browser -->
Scanning the documentation, I can see the 3 elements I need just sitting there waiting for me. Sweet! I pop these into my file, add my own values, and save my changes.
```ruby
app_identifier "com.razeware.chew"
apple_id "bschick1@mac.com"
team_id "3YBJVXRAQH"
```

Back in my `Fastfile`,  I clear out the my now-unneeded params and close things up:
```ruby
lane :get_dev_certs do
  cert(development: true)
  sigh(development: true)
end 
```
That's much nicer. By the way, a Rubyist would drop the parentheses when a function contains zero or one parameters, like this:
```ruby
  lane :get_dev_certs do
    cert development: true
    sigh development: true
  end 
```
You'll see both forms in fastlane samples in the wild. I'll generally include the params here, as it looks more natural to my Swift-y eyes.
Now I’ll run my lane again:
Thanks to Appfile, everything runs as expected, but with much cleaner — and DRYer — lanes.

<!-- EDITOR: The following section has no demo video -- just the slide content. -->

## A Note about Sample Projects
Before we move on, here's an important note about how to use any episode's `Beginning` or `Ending` sample projects included from now on. 
Because we're now using fastlane to dynamically get your code signing assets, starting now, you'll need to do two things if you'd like to use one of these sample projects…
**[Slide 1]**
First, inside the `Beginning` or `Ending` project's fastlane subdirectory, you'll need to update any configuration files. 
**[Slide 2]**
Right now, we have two of these "Appfile" and "Fastfile", and we'll add more as the course proceeds. (they'll all take the form \<something\> file).
**[Slide 3]**
For each of these files, you'll need to replace my info with yours. Here's an example using this episode's Ending Appfile and Fastfile:
**[Slide 4]**
Second, once you've done this, you'll need to run a fastlane lane to ensure that your sample project has your code signing assets. 
**[Slide 5]**
From now up until the end of Episode 3.02, you'll just need to run the `fastlane get_dev_certs` lane you've just created. Just so you know, we'll switch to a different method at the end of Episode 3.02.
**[Slide 6]**
That's all there is to it. Once you've done these two steps, you should be good to go.
# Conclusion
Nice work! You've now completed your first 2 Fastfile lanes, and they're already doing non-trivial things for you. I hope you're also seeing that fastlane's Ruby syntax isn't hard to get the knack of. We may not get confused with high-end Rubyists, but that's ok, cuz we'll soon just be blurs as we're speeding on down our iOS fastlanes… :]