# Introduction
Now it's your turn to put into practice some of the lane and configuration tips of the past 2 episodes.
# Introducing the Challenge
Your basic challenge this time will be to:
- First, a description that reads "Update iOS UDID's on Developer Portal" to your  `sync_device_info` lane, and another description of "Sync team Development assets" to your `sync_all_development` lane. 
-  At the top of your `sync_all_development` lane, add a call to  your  `sync_device_info` lane.
And of course, there's an advanced challenge for you as well:
- Your `sync_device_info` lane currently lists devices inline. It'd be nicer to move your device list to a separate file. You'll make this so, via the following:
	- Create a `Devicefile` file in your fastlane directory.
	- Set up the required tab-separated data and enter your device information (for file specs, you can grab the file at the URL shown in the slides, and then check out the included `multiple-device-upload-ios.txt` file).
	- Replace the inline `devices` parameter and values with a parameter and value pointing to your new `Devicefile `.
Remember that the `fastlane` documentation is your friend, especially for your advanced challenge, where you'll likely want to reference the documentation for `register_devices`. 
Pause the video now, give this a go, and once again… have fun! I'll see you on the other side…
# Pause for Challenge
# Demo: Challenge Answers
Welcome back. Let's take a look at this:
## Basic Challenge
I’ll start by opening my `Fastfile`. As we saw in the previous episode, adding a lane description simply requires invoking the `desc` keyword following by a string describing the lane. 

I’ll rearrange my lanes a bit (we’ll talk more about organization later), and then add descriptions before each:
```ruby
desc "Update iOS UDID's on Developer Portal"
lane :sync_device_info do

...

desc "Sync team Development assets"
lane :sync_all_development do
...
```

Then to switch lanes, I add a call to our `sync_device_info` lane at the beginning of our `sync_all_development` lane:
```ruby
lane :sync_all_development do
sync_device_info
match(  type: "development")
end
```
I’ll save my changes
and then run our updated `sync_all_development` lane 
```ruby
fastlane sync_all_development
```
As expected, fastlane cruises on over to  `sync_device_info`, and once finished, it returns to our original lane and completes the remainder of it. 

Let's take a look at the lane documentation in the auto-generated `fastlane/README.md` file that’s autogenerated each time we run fastlane:
<!-- Show code + markdown preview -->
Nice! 

## Advanced Challenge
For our advanced challenge, I start by creating a new `Devicefile` inside the project `fastlane` folder
<!-- create in Code -->
and make sure I have easy access to both my `Fastfile` and the template file I downloaded.

I grab the content of the downloaded tab-separated iOS device configuration file and pop this into my new file. Then I get the device names and UDID's from my existing inline device list and save my changes.
```
Device ID	Device Name
00008020-001C491C0268002E	brin excess
f25bd75b4b3d643c749902dce888ae83c1f1f4ad	Pro 120
```

Back in `Fastfile`, I replace the `devices` param and values with a reference to my new `Devicefile`:
```ruby
  lane :sync_device_info do
    register_devices(
      devices_file: "fastlane/Devicefile"
    )
  end
```
A quick Pro tip: One thing here that can easily trip you up is that the path required is relative to the project root, while you might expect it to be relative to your \```fastlane``` directory. If you ever get this wrong,``fastlane's\` error messages will give you helpful feedback.

I’ll try out our updated lane in the CLI:
```ruby
fastlane sync_device_info
```
Nice. The new device list works as expected. But the big payoff here is on an organizational level. Over time, this kind of separation really helps avoid massive `Fastfile` syndrome and keeps everything lean and clean.
# Conclusion
Nice work! In the next episode, we'll wrap up this section. I'll see you there…