# Introduction
In this episode, you'll put `precheck` to use in your own lanes. Let's take a look at your challenge
# Introducing the Challenge
Your challenge is nice and simple: 
- Create a new lane in your Fastfile, and call it `check_metadata`
- Inside it, call `precheck`
- Set the default setting for all rules to `error` (Hint: this is a single parameter: don't do this manually for each rule).
- Configure `precheck` to check for in-app purchases
And here's our bonus challenge:
- Add a list of at least 2 custom words you'd like to check for. 
- Set this to `warn` only.
# Pause for Challenge
As usual, remember to consult the action's documentation to find the parameter names and values to use. 
Go ahead and hit pause and give this a try. I'll see you when you're done.
# Demo: Challenge Answers
Welcome back. Let's take a look at this:
In my Fastfile, I create a new `check_metadata` lane, and add a `precheck` method call.
To configure the setting for all rules at once, I use the `default_rule_level` parameter and pass it a value of :error. this ensures that by default, any error will terminate my lanes.
I then add the `include_in_app_purchase` parameter, setting it too true.
Now on to our bonus challenge:
I add the `custom_text` parameter. I give it an array of words to check: `data: ["monsters", "creepies"]`, and then once again set its level, this time to `warn` only: `level: :warn`.
# Conclusion
Nicely done! As you can see, `precheck` works perfectly out of the box, yet lets you customize every aspect of it as you'd like. Best of all, it can really add to your peace of mind, and you can of course run it periodically as you're developing, so you'll know that you're doing everything you can to make sure your app will pass review with flying colors!
In the next episode, we'll turn our attention to creating and submitting the vast array of screenshots  required as part of submitting an app. See you there!