# Introduction
In this episode, you'll add `frameit` and `deliver` to your `Fastfile`. With a single command, your `release` lane will handle the entire process of pre-checking, building, snapshotting and framing, and ultimately delivering your app and all its metadata to the App Store. 
# Introducing the Challenge
## Basic Challenge
Your main challenge is to complete your :release lane. Here’s what you’ll do:
- Your lane doesn't currently build your app for submission. Make it run your `build_appstore` lane right after `precheck`.
- Next, add `frameit`  after you call `snapshot` and configure it to use your favorite iPhone color.
- Last, call `deliver` without any parameters.
Run you lane. It should scan your metadata, version bump and build your distributable archive, generate and frame your snapshots, present you with an HTML report, and on confirmation, deliver your  meta assets (but not your archive file) to the App Store.
## Advanced Challenge
Your advanced challenge is bring this all the way home. To do this:
- Move `Framefile.json`, `background.jpg`, and the `fonts` directory from `./courseAssets` to `./fastlane/screenshots`, and the two copies of `title.strings` from their `en-US` and `de-DE` sub directories in  `./courseAssets` to the matching subdirectories in `./fastlane/screenshots`.
- Then in your `release` lane, configure  `deliver` to:
	- Upload the `.ipa` created by `build_appstore`
	- Skip `precheck` *and* HTML report file verification
	- If needed, set your `team_name`
Run your lane once again. This time, `frameit` should now apply custom background, per-language titles, font and colors to each app scene. And `deliver` should now upload your code-signed, version-bumped binary, all without any intervention on your part.
All right. Give that your best shot, and have fun!  I'll see you when you're done. 
# Pause for Challenge


# Demo: Challenge Answers
Welcome back! I hope you had fun with these challenges. Let's walk through them together now:
## Basic Challenge
In my `release` lane, I add a call to `build_appstore` after I run `precheck`. Then I call `frameit`, choosing `gold` device frames. Last, I'll run `deliver`. 
```ruby
  lane :release do
    precheck
    build_appstore
    snapshot
    frameit(gold: true)
    deliver
  end
```
Please pause your video and correct any issues if needed, and then run your lane.
# Pause


# Resume
Now I'll run my lane, then jump in my handy Zoom Ahead machine :]
```ruby
fastlane release
```
As you can see, it first `prechecks` my app, builds a new version-bumped .ipa file, assembles all my snapshots, frames them, and then presents a summary page showing me all my framed images *and* all my metadata. If I'm happy with all this, I give the go ahead and deliver uploads my metadata and screenshots – but not my `.ipa` file — to the App Store.
My lane's doing a ton of work for me now, but it's not quite ready for prime time. In production, I don't want to have to confirm prompts, I want to add custom captions and backgrounds to my framed screenshots, and I most definitely want to upload my `.ipa` file. Oh, and I'm getting a redundant `precheck` at the end of my lane, as `deliver` by default also runs `precheck`. 


## Advanced Challenge
We address these issues in the advanced challenge.
First, I add `Fremefile.json`, `background.jpg`, and `fonts` to `./fastlane/screenshots`, and copies of `title.strings` to their English and German subdirectories. That gives me everything I need to nicely customize my screenshots.
Then, I add parameters to `deliver` to tune its behavior. I set  the path to our `.ipa`file. I turn off the redundant precheck, suppress the confirmation HTML page by setting force to true, and set my team name to avoid that prompt. 
```ruby
  lane :release do
    precheck
    build_appstore
    snapshot
    frameit(white: true)
    deliver(
      ipa: "./build_AppStore/ChewChewTrain.ipa",
      run_precheck_before_submit: false,
      force: true,
      team_name: "Brian Schick"
      )
  end
```
Once again, please pause and update your lanes and project if you had any issues, and be sure to run your lane.
# Pause


# Resume
I'll run my lane once and once again, then jump into my time machine…
```ruby
fastlane release
```
And we're back. 
This time, my `release` lane brings everything full circle. My screenshots are captioned and have backgrounds, and my .ipa file is uploaded for me. The whole process now happens without any intervention on my part, and I love seeing the completion message that `fastlane` just saved me 17 minutes. I can get used to this! 
```
[17:32:25]: --------------------------------------------------------------------
[17:32:25]: Successfully uploaded package to App Store Connect. It might take a few minutes until it's visible online.
[17:32:25]: --------------------------------------------------------------------
[17:32:25]: Finished the upload to App Store Connect

+------+------------------------+-------------+
|              `fastlane` summary               |
+------+------------------------+-------------+
| Step | Action                 | Time (in s) |
+------+------------------------+-------------+
| 1    | default_platform       | 0           |
| 2    | precheck               | 7           |
| 3    | Switch to ios          | 0           |
|      | build_appstore lane    |             |
| 4    | Switch to ios          | 0           |
|      | sync_signing_assets    |             |
|      | lane                   |             |
| 5    | match                  | 5           |
| 6    | increment_build_numbe  | 2           |
|      | r                      |             |
| 7    | gym                    | 28          |
| 8    | snapshot               | 329         |
| 9    | frameit                | 266         |
| 10   | deliver                | 357         |
+------+------------------------+-------------+

[17:32:25]: fastlane.tools just saved you 17 minutes! 🎉
```


# Conclusion
Congratulations! Your `release` lane has come full circle, as it now handle the entire process of building and submitting a release for the App Store. 
Take a moment to feel an extremely well-deserved sense of accomplishment at what you've just achieved. And I'll see you in the next episode.