# Intro
It's time to roll up your sleeves and install fastlane on your mac. 
Before we dive in, a quick note: 
We'll be installing — or confirming the installation of — Xcode's command line tools, Ruby, Homebrew, Git, and finally… Fastlane itself in this episode. 
I'll do my best to move through each step at a reasonable pace. But don't hesitate to pause, slow down, or replay any parts of the video if needed. Remember that the entire point of this episode is to make sure *your* mac is all set to go for the rest of our course.
# Lecture
## Installing Xcode Command-line Tools
Our first step is ensuring Xcode's command line tools are installed and up to date.
Start by opening Xcode, choosing Preferences and selecting the Locations tab. Make sure that `Command Line Tools` isn't blank, and that it's set to your most recent version of Xcode. (By the way, I'll be using the most recent release version of Xcode available at time of recording (Xcode 10.1) throughout this course).  If it's not, make it so, which will trigger installation of the command line tools. You can quit Xcode once this is done… we won't be needing it for awhile. And don't forget to pause the video here or elsewhere if you need time for things to complete.
Next, open your Terminal app. Run the following command:
```bash
xcode-select --print-path
```
So long as you see the path to your most recent copy of Xcode, you're good to go.
## Ruby
**[Slide ]** [https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/][1]
Next, since fastlane runs on Ruby. let's confirm your mac's Ruby installation. Run
```bash
ruby -v
```
You should get back a message similar to:
```bash
ruby 2.5.3p105 (2018-10-18 revision 65156) [x86_64-darwin18]
```
<!-- I'll complete this section once I get word back from Felix about recommended Ruby version, whether we should have folks install rbenv, etc. -->
Once again, be sure to pause the video if you need more time.
# Interlude: Homebrew
**[Slide ]** [https://brew.sh]()
Now we'll install a key helper tool called Homebrew. If you're not familiar with it, Homebrew is a fantastic command line utility — also implemented in Ruby — that enables you to install a vast world of free, open-source low-level languages and command-line utilities for your mac. We'll use it in throughout this course. 
# Demo: Installing/Verifying Homebrew
Next, we'll make sure Homebrew is installed on your mac by running
```bash
brew -v
```
if you don't get a version number back, you'll need to install Homebrew. To do this, run this command. Be sure to press `Enter` when you're prompted:
```bash
/usr/bin/ruby -e "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/master/install)"
```
Now, whether or not you just installed Homebrew, run:
```bash
brew update
brew doctor
```
These commands make sure you're running the most recent version of Homebrew, and that everything's running smoothly. If `brew doctor` reports any issues, go ahead and follow its recommendations to resolve them before continuing.
# Demo: Installing Git
We're almost there! Run
```bash
git --version
```
to see the currently installed version of git on your mac. if you don't get back a version number, run this command to install it:
```bash
brew install git
```
# Demo: Installing fastlane
Now it's on to the main event:  it's time to install fastlane itself. Run the following command:
```bash
brew cask install fastlane 
```
Once this completes, the fastlane core tools are installed.
By the way, if you already had fastlane installed, now is a good time to make sure it's up to date, since it gets updated by the team quite frequently. To do this, simply run:
```bash
fastlane update_fastlane
```
# Interlude: Chew Chew Train
That was a lot of work, but it gets all the preliminaries out of the way. Now it's time to briefly introduce our project. If you haven't already, install the Materials for this course and ……………
<!-- Finish preceding ¶ making sure it complies with RW standards -->
Chew Chew Train is the app our friend Devon is developing. It's a warm-hearted — but maybe just slightly confused — app that takes a fresh spin on dog training. It's central premise is that every dog should get a nice treat every time you ask it to do anything, regardless of the result. We understand that a lot of fairly rotund and happy — but possibly not so well-trained — dogs really like its motto of "Always Be Chewing".
# Demo: Initializing fastlane in our project
We'll take a closer look at the app a bit later on. For now, make sure it's installed where you'd like, and navigate to the project's root directory in Terminal:
```bash
cd <directory path>
```
You've already installed fastlane on your mac; now it's time to initialize it for your project. Execute this command:
```bash
fastlane init
```
The initialization script analyzes your project and present you with a set options that let you choose standard configurations to start with. We'll choose 4-manual, because we'll be building up everything from scratch. Do this now, and be sure to tap `Enter` when prompted. 
Great! Fastlane is now initialized for your project. Open your project in a Finder window
```bash
 open .
```
There's a Gemfile, which contains Ruby-centric information about fastlane itself, and a new fastlane directory. Navigate to this directory and have a look around. For now, the initialization script added an Appfile,that will contain some project-wide information, and the Fastfile. Remember the Fastfile in particular: This is where we'll be adding all our lanes throughout this course.
# Conclusion
All right! Take a moment to give yourself a well-earned pat on the back (assuming you're more coordinated than I am :) You've taken care of all the preliminaries — fastlane and all its dependencies are installed on your mac, and you've add the sample project and initialized fastlane for it. 
In the next episode, we'll start working with fastlane itself, and  I'll introduce the first fastlane tool you'll be working. See you there…





[1]:	https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/
