# Introduction
Welcome back!
In the past two sections, you've seen how fastlane can tame and expedite the iOS development workflow, In the process, you've also learned the essentials of how to use and tune fastlane's use directly via the command line, and how you can create lanes in your Fastfile that let you perform powerful sets of actions with just a single command. 
Now that you've mastered these basics, it's time to meet some of fastlane's real workhorse tools and see how they can really streamline and turbocharge how you build your apps for distribution and how you then distribute your test builds to testers.
To begin, we'll review the manual steps we've all needed to perform in order to build and package your apps for distribution. Then, you'll meet `gym`, fastlane's highly capable workhorse action for automating and dramatically streamlining this process.
Next, we'll turn to the process of manually distributing your builds to testers. Once again, we'll first review how this is traditionally done, and then follow this with an introduction to `pilot`, the fastlane tool dedicated to vastly improving this part of the distribution build workflow.
Finally, you'll meet a unique, stand-alone fastlane tool named `boarding`. Boarding serves the special role of automatically creating a custom website designed to make it a snap for external testers to enroll to test your app.
Throughout this section, you'll be building on the core fastlane skills you've learned in the preceding sections. And… I think you'll see that the investment you've put into learning fastlane's basics until now will really start to pay dividends from here on out.
Alright! There's a lot of great stuff to cover! See you in the next episode…