# Introduction
With our flyover of the many ways our apps depend on App Store interactions, we're ready to meet fastlane.
# Lecture
**[Slide ]** Fastlane Logo?
In simplest terms, fastlane is a suite of tools designed to vastly improve how you work with the App Store ecosystem. At the simplest level, fastlane consists of several atomic actions, each focused on addressing a single facet of the App Store interaction puzzle. But on a deeper level, fastlane is all about creating lanes — scripts that combine individual fastlane actions into meta tools capable of doing many complex App Store tasks on your behalf — with just a single command.
**[Slide ]** Aiming high
Fastlane is ambitious: It doesn't just want to make things a bit better: It seeks to fully automate entire processes. 
For example, think of the process of creating, adjusting, and submitting all the screenshots for all your devices and then for all the languages your app will support. This not only takes hours, but also tons of manual steps in many apps. As you'll see in Section 3, we can easily build a fastlane ready to do *everything* in this process on your behalf. Not only do you save hours of time, but human error is effectively eliminated!
## Historical Overview
**[Slide ]** 
fastlane is an open source project on GitHub. It was the brainchild of Felix Krause, who developed and open sourced it in 2014 Felix and other members of the fastlane team also kindly assisted with this video course — big thanks, Felix. 
fastlane quickly generated a lot of interest, and it was acquired by Twitter in 2015 and added to its Fabric platform. In 2017, Google acquired Fabric, and fastlane and Felix both joined the Google fold. Happily, the project remains very active, continues to be open source, and Felix continues to contribute actively. 
## Technical Overview
**[Slide ]** Ruby and Gears?
fastlane is a command line utility. Like many of the best tools in this area, it's built with Ruby. Although the fastlane team has experimented with beta Swift implementations, Felix and team highly advise using Ruby in production. At present, the Swift tools aren't feature complete, and the consensus is that working directly with the Ruby codebase is most performant and effective at present.
As Swift developers, we may find this to be a mild disappointment. However, I'll make sure you know everything you need to to work with fastlane and build your own lanes. And if you're not familiar with Ruby, I think you'll find it a really nice language to work with. And remember that we'll stop for challenges every few episodes, so you'll be able to gradually build up your fastlane chops along the way.
## The fastlane Site
**[Slide ]** [https://fastlane.tools][1]
The online home of the fastlane project is fastlane.tools. The most important thing here for our purposes is the **Docs** link, which takes us directly to to docs.fastlane.tools
**[Slide ]** [docs.fastlane.tools][2].
This is the home of all fastlane documentation. You'll find a lot of helpful information here about fastlane's actions, plugins, integrations, best practices, and much more. I'll refer to key resources here throughout this course.
**[Slide ]** [https://github.com/fastlane/fastlane][3]
As an open-source project, fastlane itself lives on GitHub. Any time you find yourself wanting to peek under the hood (highly encouraged!) the source of truth lives here.
## Tools
I'll conclude this section with a quick mention of tools we'll use throughout this course. We *will* use Xcode now and again as we create fastlanes for our sample project. But we'll spend most of our time in two applications: Terminal and a non-Xcode code editor. Let's quickly review both these…
**[Slide ]** Terminal and iTerm
The built-in Terminal app provided with macOS is solid, reliable and free. It's a great choice for basic command line interactions. If you're looking for a power option, IiTerm is a fantastic tool that does everything Terminal does while adding an astounding array of additional functionality. 
By the way, if you're not really comfortable working with Terminal, you might want to check out our short and very approachable **Command Line Basics** video course — a great way to solidify your command line skillset. If you're looking to take your command line prowess to the next level, our **Advanced Command Line** video course is ready and waiting.
**[Slide ]** Code Editors
Now on to code editors. First off, while it's possible to edit fastlane files in Xcode, it's not ideal, and I'd suggest finding another alternative.
If you don't already have a favorite mac code editor, here are some standouts:
- The granddaddy of the bunch is the Venerable Vim editor. Vim is a fantastic choice, but it's only for terminal die hards. If that's you, vim's probably your best choice.
- Sublime Text is a long-established cross-platform code editor that's blazingly fast and deeply extensible. If you know and love Sublime, it's a great choice. However, it can be a bit hard to learn compared to the next choices.
- Atom is a relatively new open-source code editor from GitHub. Atom is cross-platform, free, powerful, and deeply customizable and extensible. It's not as fast as Sublime, but is friendlier to learn and has an active development community.
- VSCode (aka Visual Studio Code — not to be confused with Visual Studio itself) is Microsoft's entry into this category. VSCode is cross-platform, free, powerful, and adding power tools at an astounding pace. A lot of developer were initially skeptical of this product at first, but it's rapidly becoming a developer favorite, as evidenced by an explosion of themes and plugins. 
If you don't have a current favorite, it's worth taking a bit of time to find a tool you're comfortable with. I'll use iTerm and VSCode to demo with throughout this course.
# Conclusion
That covers the preliminaries. In the next episode, we'll install fastlane and its dependencies. See you there…

[1]:	https://fastlane.tools
[2]:	https://docs.fastlane.tools
[3]:	https://github.com/fastlane