# Introduction
Our next topic is the key step of creating and submitting screenshots as we submit our apps to the App Store. 
# Lecture
## The Trouble with Tribbles
**[Slide ]** Herds of Screenshots
Creating screenshots for App Store submission is traditionally a maddeningly manual process. It can easily takes hours to manually capture iOS Simulator screenshots for each view multiplied by every target device we'll support, then use an app like Sketch or Photoshop to embed and resize each image to match precise App Store specs. 
**[Slide ]** Tribbles?!
As we do this, it's easy to get visions of infinite numbers of screenshots dancing in our heads like an exploding herd number of Star Trek tribbles. Oh, and of course, these tribbles multiply yet again for every language your app supports. Let's say we need 5 screenshots for each of 8 devices for 10 languages. That's just too many tribbles! More precisely, that's 400 screenshots to be taken manually… one by one by one by….
**[Slide ]** Not-so patient developer
Often in the real world, creating this endless processing of screenshots can wind up seeming like a mindless, almost meaningless task. (I mean, my app's done, and this isn't even *coding*!). This can make it easy push through this as fast as we can. For the same reason, it's tempting to only choose to update our app screenshots when we really *have* to, rather than on each app update.
**[Slide ]** Screen -\> $$$
And yet, screenshots are one of the biggest factors determining if someone chooses to download our app. If we want our apps to get onto devices, we *really* want our screenshots to shine — and ideally, we want to update them on every update.
## Taming the Tribbles
Once again, fastlane will come to our rescue. In the next episode, you'll learn to use  `snapshot` — the fastlane action that's tasked with automating taking and assembling a compete matrix of screenshots. 
But before moving on, it's worth taking a moment to review the engineering challenges fastlane overcomes to work its magic in this case.
**[Slide ]** Spaceship No Fly Zone
Most fastlane actions leverage a combination of command line apps for deep processing with fastlane `spaceship` to communicate with App Store API's. But the entire screenshot creation workflow must take place on our local machines, and there aren't any great command line tools to automatically grab the needed screenshots. 
**[Slide ]** UI Test
To solve this, fastlane `snapshot` does something quite brilliant: It cleverly leverages Xcode's `XCUITest` framework to open each view you'll submit in an iOS Simulator. That's logical enough, since Apple designed this framework to perform UI actions in a Simulator.
**[Slide ]**  Snapshot
The nice conceptual breakthrough, however, is that rather than this test framework for *testing*, fastlane realized they could leverage this to automate taking *screenshots*. But there's a further problem: How would each screenshot be triggered? 
**[Slide ]** Aha Moment!
The short answer is that fastlane found a way to synthesize an otherwise never-used event for each screen to be snapped, and then leveraged this event to take a Simulator screenshot of each target screen at just the right moment. If you'd like to read more about this, see [creating perfect screenshots][1].
Putting this all together, here's how `snapshot` works at a high level:
**[Slide ]** Snapshot workflow
A simple UI Test walks through each of the screens we need. As each screen appears in the Simulator, the synthesized event triggers a screenshot at just the right moment. By then iterating over each language — and each supported Simulator type — a complete matrix of screenshot image files is assembled in a dedicated directory structure that's cleanly organized by device and language. This is some a beautiful solution to an age-old iOS development problem!
# Conclusion
Now that you've seen how `snapshot` works in the big picture, in the next episode, we'll move on to the details of setting up your project to work with `snapshot`. See you there!

[1]:	https://krausefx.com/blog/creating-perfect-app-store-screenshots-of-your-ios-app "creating perfect screenshots"