# Intro
In the last two episodes you've learned about team-based code signing and `fastlane` `match`. Now it's your turn to try our `match` by adding a new team development lane to your `Fastfile`.
# Introducing the Challenge
Here are the details of your challenge:
- First, update  your `Matchfile` to always set `force_for_new_devices` to true.
- Then in your `Fastfile`, create a new `sync_all_development` lane.
- Inside your lane, invoke `match` to generate, encrypt, and store new team signing assets in your git repo and on your local mac. 
- Ensure that `match` is configured for development, and that it will renew its provisioning profiles if the developer portal device coåunt has changed.
Now on to your advanced challenge:
`fastlane` contains a helper action designed to be paired with `match`, called `register_devices`. It's purpose is to provide teams a single place to enter all team devices, so that provisioning profiles will always be in sync with all team devices.
Your challenge is to find `register_devices'` documentation and using it to:
- Create a new `sync_device_info` lane, and
- Add `register_devices` to it.
- Now the fun part: Find and add the parameter to include a list of iOS devices inline. You'll see that this parameter takes a Ruby hash, which is similar functionally to a Swift dictionary, but uses fat arrows instead of colons. Connect one or two devices to Xcode to get their UDID's, and add them to your lane.
OK. Pause the video now and give the challenge a try. Remember to consult `match's` and `sync_device_info's` lane-specific documentation for the parameters you'll need, and most of all, have fun! I'll see you when you're done.
# Pause for Challenge
# Demo
## Basic Challenge
Welcome back! Let's review this…
I start by opening `Matchfile` 
and adding the line 
```ruby
force_for_new_devices(true)
```
One thing to watch out for here is that since this is a method call instead of a parameter, we enclose `true` in parenthesis, rather than using the `param` : `value` format we do within lanes. 
I'll save and close the file, 
then I’ll open Fastfile 
and create a new lane
```ruby
lane :sync_all_development do

end
```

I add a line to call `match`. Now we need to add parameters to specify development mode and to force updates on device count changes. Or do we?
Here’s the thing: I was a little bit deceptive in my setup, but I swear, I had good intentions :]. I wanted you to make sure you're clear how your configuration files affect your lane settings. 
As you know, your `Matchfile` is already configured to address both these issue, so technically, you don't need *any* parameters with `match` here. However, for clarity, I think it's clearer to specify development type in our lane, since a bit later, you'll be specifying several other modes in different lanes.
So I’ll configure our lane like this
```ruby
lane :sync_all_development do
  match(type: "development")
end
```
…and save my changes
If you had any issues with this, please update your code and run the lane now, pausing the video if needed. 
I'll run this lane now.
```ruby
fastlane sync_all_development
```
As you can see… in very short order, our new lane checks everything, makes any needed updates including silently decrypting and encrypting, logging into our Apple and git accounts, managing our keychains, and more. 
I'm a fairly simple boy, but I find that pretty amazing.
## Advanced Challenge
On to our advanced challenge. 
<!-- Open ../actions/register_devices/ in browser -->
Our starting point is `../actions/register_devices/`. Its documentation is what you'd expect from a `fastlane` action, but with one twist: There's no documentation for using this action in the command line, and if you try to run `fastlane register_devices` in the command line, you'll discover that it's just not possible. 


This is a new pattern, and one that you'll occasionally see with specialized actions that only really make sense to run within a lane. You'll most likely intuitively know to just run commands like this in a lane, but keep an eye out for this pattern.
The parameter I need is `devices`.
<!-- Scroll and highlight in documentation -->
 Back in my code editor, I’ll add my new lane and stub out my call to register\_devices\_ now:
```ruby
lane :sync_device_info do
   register_devices(
     devices: {
     }
   )
 end
```
Now I need to find my device UDID's. If you haven't done this before, you can use Xcode to do this by connecting your device, opening `Devices`, selecting the device, clicking on the `Identifier` property to toggle it from serial to UDID, and copying it.
I'll do this for 2 devices:
```ruby
lane :sync_device_info do
   register_devices(
     devices: {
       "brin excess" => "00008020-001C491C0268002E",
       "Pro 120" => "f25bd75b4b3d643c749902dce888ae83c1f1f4ad"
     }
   )
 end
```


I'll run my new lane now. Once again, update your code and do this yourself, pausing the video as needed:
<!-- Show the results in Finder to back up that the 2 devices git added -->



<!-- EDITOR: The following section has no demo video -- just the slide content. -->
## A Note about Sample Projects
Before we close, I want to update you on what to do from now on if you'd like to use any episode's Beginning or Ending sample projects.
**[Slide 1]** 
As you know, the basic steps are to first, update any configuration files included in the sample project's fastfile directory, replacing my info with yours. And second, you then use fastlane to update your code signing assets for the sample project.
**[Slide 2]** 
What's changed now is that we've switched from using cert and sigh to using match. Because of this, the second step is now different than it was until now. 
**[Slide 3]** 
Starting with the Ending sample project for this episode, you'll find a `bootstrap_code_signing`  lane in the sample project's `Fastfile`.  This lane simply replicates the manual steps you've just done to set up code signing with `match`.
**[Slide 4]** 
Bottom line: Starting with the Ending sample project of this episode, after you've updated the fastlane configuration files of any sample project, simply run `fastlane bootstrap_code_signing` and you should be good to go.'



# Conclusion
Nice work! You've implemented fastlane's team signing code tools. As you can see, it's not at all difficult to implement this, and if your needs fit fastlane's vision, it's a beautifully executed schema that might transform how you work. 
In the next episode, we'll learn more about making lanes themselves more powerful. See you there!