
# Introduction
In this episode, you'll learn some fastlane fundamentals. You'll also meet your first fastlane action and see how it can streamline registering your app.. 
# Lecture
To get the ball rolling, we'll start a basic aspect of the app Development workflow: registering an app with App Store connect. 
## Registration Basics
**[Slide 1]** App Registration Purpose
To quickly review, registering an app is a crucial first step, because it:
- Ensures that your app's bundle ID is unique throughout Apple's ecosystems.
- Lets you obtain development provisioning profiles so your in-development app can run development team members' registered iOS devices.
This is conventionally done by manually registering a new app on the Apple Developer Portal. While there's nothing wrong with this manual process, you'll get a first glimpse here of how we can automate a traditionally manual process with a streamlined `fastlane` alternative.
## Actions in Context
**[Slide 2]**
Throughout this course, every time we want to solve a new problem, we'll use a new fastlane action. The fastlane action we'll use for this task is called `produce`. Let's take a moment to place this in context, starting with the fastlane documentation page. For our purposes, the single most important link on this page will be "Available Actions", which I'll click now…
**[Slide 3]* Great. But… what's a fastlane *action*? Simply put, an action is a fastlane function designed to address a specific automation challenge. For now, all actions we review will the the App Store ecosystem. In practice, an action is like a verbal command instructing fastlane to do something on your behalf. You can think of the lanes you'll soon construct as complete sentences, and individual actions as the vocabulary of available words for those sentences.
<!-- Editor: Please click slide here to initiate highlight around search bar -->
Before we move on, take a note of the helpful search bar at the top right of the Documentation page. This affordance is universally present throughout all fastlane documentation, and is a really handy way to quickly get around.
**[Slide 4]**
Back on our page, you'll see that actions are organized by category — Code Signing, Building, Testing, and so on. 
**[Slide 5]**
Our initial action — `produce` — belongs to a set of tools designed to improve *App Store Connect* interactions. I'll select this now.
## Action Basics
**[Slide 6]** 
This brings us to the main documentation page for `produce`. I'll introduce several conventions you'll see repeatedly throughout this course:
- **[Slide 7]** ￼First, we're presented with the action name and its logo.
- **[Slide 8]** Many actions also have aliases — `produce` is an alias for an action called `create_app_online`. An alias resembles a Swift `typealias`, and you're free to use any available alias. Just be consistent, of course.
- **[Slide 9]** Next is the `Usage` section. A hidden key to reading these is understanding that fastlane actions can be used in two very different ways:
	- They can be invoked directly in the command line. 
	- They can incorporated into a custom project lane. 
	In the first case, the use context is bound to Terminal syntax and rules. In the second case, all syntax and rules in this are defined by Ruby conventions.
	This dual identity is mirrored in the Usage documentation. 
	- **[Slide 10]** You'll first see how a given action can be used a la carte in the command line. Following this will be info about using the same action in a lane's Ruby context.
		**[Slide 11]** This can take some getting used to, and unfortunately, it's not initially crystal clear where the line ends between command line and Fastfile lane documentation. Over time this difference becomes intuitive. Meanwhile, I'll call this out as we go along.
# Demo
## Basic Produce Usage
Let's get a sampling of what we can do with this `produce`.
In Terminal, I'll confirm I'm in our sample project root directory. then run:
```bash
fastlane produce
```
This is how you run any fastlane command capable of command line use: Simply run it with `fastlane <action_name>`. 
<!-- 
2018.01-10
I need to include a quick callout of the more proper form "bundle exec fastlane", but I'm waiting for feedback on some fine points of this from the fastlane team 
-->
Given the many options we glimpsed earlier, you might be surprised that you can use this simple format. This is by design: `fastlane` carefully chooses "sensible defaults" for all actions, so that while you *can* invoke advanced options when you need them, you can generally use a very simple form of the command. It's a great design pattern, and makes working with fastlane quite nice in practice.
The `produce` action focuses on registering an app. I'm prompted to enter my Apple ID, then to choose a team. Then I'm prompted to enter my Bundle ID, and a friendly name for my app. Not coincidentally, these are the same parameters you're prompted to enter when you create an app in Xcode. And, of course, I could add the appropriate command line options to avoid these prompts.
Notice that what's reported back to me are the results of interactions `produce` has with the App Store ecosystem on my behalf.  Specifically, `fastlane` verifies that my information is valid and that my bundle ID is unique, then automatically registers my app in both on both the Developer Portal and App Store Connect and, reporting back its newly assigned unique ID.
<!-- Pull up Spaceship site -->
By the way, behind the scenes, most fastlane actions leverage a core fastlane tool called `spaceship`. If you're interested in seeing what makes fastlane tick, I'd encourage you to check out `spaceship's` documentation. It's a beautiful and sleek tool that works with no less than 5 different Apple API's, providing the underlying engine powering all fastlane interactions with the vast App Store ecosystem.
<!-- Pull up App Store Connect -->
To confirm our results, I'll open App Store Connect in our browser. Sure enough, our app is newly registered with Apple. Nothing earth-shattering, but a nice first glimpse of fastlane's streamlining potential.
## Getting more info
In addition to consulting each action's documentation page, you can get information about running any action in the command line by running `fastlane <action_name> --help`. For example: 
```bash
fastlane produce --help
```
As you can see, this immediately gives you a complete listing of CLI options. And this same technique works for any fastlane action that can be run in Terminal. (You'll later meet a few actions that can only be run in lanes).
As an example, one way to keep from being prompted for my info when I run `produce` is to add :
```bash
fastlane produce \
--username bschick1@mac.com \
--app_identifier com.razeware.ChewChewTrain \
--app_name "Chew Chew Train" \
--team_name "Brian Schick" \
--itc_team_name "Brian Schick"
```
Fastlane has more civilized methods for permanently storing this kind of project info, but this is a nice start.
By the way, the reason I've included both `team_name` and `itc_team_name` is that under the hood, these 2 values correspond to separate calls `produce` must make, first to the Developer Portal and then to App Store Connect. 
One last thing: We can also get command line help on how to use any action in fastlane's *other* life within Ruby lanes. To get this, run `fastlane actions <action_name>` for any action. Here, I'll run:
```bash
fastlane actions produce
```
This gives a nice summary of available *lane* parameters, and also closes the lop by pointing back to the action's online documentation page. This is another shared pattern you'll see repeated across all fastlane actions.
# Conclusion
We've dipped our toes in the mighty fastlane ocean. 
In the next episode, you'll learn more about the core *lane* concept, and then you'll roll up your sleeves and create your first lane. See you there…
