# Introduction
Next up in our quest to tame the Release process is the creation of screenshots for our apps. We'll address this in two passes: In this episode, I'll review the process and the approach we'll take to civilize it, and we'll focus on the details in the next episode. Let's get started! 
# Lecture
## Manual Steps are a pain
**[Slide 1]** 
Creating screenshots for App Store submission is traditionally a labor-intensive manual process. The issue is a combination of the process itself and some daunting numbers. 
**[Slide 2]** 
Generating screenshots *without* helper tools requires that we step through each target view in a simulator and manually snap screenshots, and then assemble and perhaps process these images in a separate image processing app.
**[Slide 3]** 
The numbers are daunting: Let's say we want to present 5 images for our app, and say we support 6 device types and that our app is localized in 10 languages. That means that we’ll need to manually take and assemble 300 screenshots.
**[Slide 4]** 
Because of this, it's easy to see this process as a rote task to be powered through, and done only when absolutely necessary.
**[Slide 5]** 
And yet, screenshots are a major factor determining if someone will download our app or not. If we want to get our apps onto devices, we want our screenshots to shine — and we want to update them every time we update our app.
## Taming this
`fastlane` has yet another brilliant solution to this problem, called `snapshot`. We'll focus on its use in the next episode. But first, I’d like to take a moment to review the engineering challenges it had to overcome.
**[Slide 6]** 
As you've seen, most `fastlane` actions leverage a combination of command line utilities for local processing and fastlane's deep `spaceship` module to communicate with App Store API's. But neither of these tools can offer the hooks to automatically capture the array of screenshots needed.  This problem space is a No Fly Zone for the underlying tools we've relied on so far in this course.
**[Slide 7]**
So how does `snapshot` solve this? It starts by cleverly leveraging Xcode's `XCUITest` framework. Although this framework is built for testing, it can also be used to step through a series of screens, and then repeat this across a set of simulators and languages. 
**[Slide 8]** 
However, `XCUITest` was never designed to allows triggering screenshots and saving them to the file system.  `snapshot` leaps over this hurdle via an otherwise unused device rotation event, which is leveraged to trigger a snapshot of each target screen. 
**[Slide 9]** 
Together, this pair of techniques provides the hooks needed needed for `snapshot` to do its work on our behalf. This is a beautiful solution, and if you're interested in learning more about its background, Felix Krause's  [creating perfect screenshots][1] makes a great quick read.
**[Slide 10]** 
Putting this all together, `snapshot` is able to leverage a custom UI Test configured for a project. It steps through each screen, iterating through each app device and within this, each app language. The end result is a complete matrix of screenshot image files is assembled in a dedicated directory structure that's cleanly organized by both device and language.
# Conclusion
In the next episode, we'll focus on setting up and using `snapshot` in our sample project.  See you there!

[1]:	https://krausefx.com/blog/creating-perfect-app-store-screenshots-of-your-ios-app "creating perfect screenshots"