# Intro
You've just seen fastlane's proposed scheme to transform code signing from an individual-centered to a team-based affair. To transform this revolutionary idea into reality, a powerful custom tool is needed. In this episode, you'll meet that tool. It's name is `match` 
# Lecture
## Introducing Match
`match` is designed to fully deliver on fastlane's ambitious vision for team-based code signing. That's quite a vision to live up to.
Happily, match delivers. It easily handles all the heavy lifting of creating, encrypting, and securely storing a team's certificates and profiles in a single git repository, and then again to retrieve, decrypt, and utilize these on individual developer's machines. And once set up, it's easy to forget that it's even there at all. 
A good measure of `match's` ambition is fastlane's pledge that a team can set up code signing on a new machine in less than a minute!  Let's take a closer look.
## Setting up a Private Git Repository
To begin, you'll need to set up a a **private** git repository dedicated solely to storing certificates.  Again, your code signing repo must be  **private** or life as we know it will end. 
At the time of this recording, `GitHub` doesn't offer private repos for free accounts but if you have a paid account, you're good to go.
Otherwise, **GitLab** (gitlab.com) and **BitBucket** (bitbucket.org) both offer private repos with their free accounts. 
Here are the basic steps to set this up:
<!-- Add slides for each bullet point -->
- If needed, choose a service, create a free account, and provide your basic info and public key. Be sure to both use a strong, unique password, and set up Two Factor authentication. 
- Log into your account and begin creation of a new `repository`. Note that gitlab uses the term `project` instead of the standard git term `repository`.
- Make sure that you make your new repo **private**. Do not pass Go without doing this.
- Name the account "Certificates" or similar and complete its creation.
- Do one last check that your repo is really private.
Rather than ask you to do this in our next challenge, I'll ask you to please take a moment and do this right now. Take your time to make sure to set up 2 factor auth, and double check that your repo is private. Please pause the video now, make it so, and I'll see you when you're done.
# Pause for Setup
# Resume
Welcome back, and thanks for setting that up. 
**[Slide ]** Optional Dev Account
There's one last optional setup step to review.
Fastlane suggests you might want to add a new Apple Developer Portal account and dedicate this to match team assets. This dedicated account — perhaps named something like **team@myorg.com** — avoids mixing personal and team-based assets in the same bucket. I'd recommend this as a best practice.
For simplicity, I won't do this here, but I'd highly advise following this best practice in any production scenario. If you'd like to do this, please go ahead and set this up now.
# Demo
## Initializing Match
<!-- Start by showing …/actions/match in browser -->
With the preliminaries set up, we're ready to put `match` to use.
Once again, match follows all the conventions you learned in the first section: Its documentation page is at …/actions/match, and it follows the same patterns you've seen so far in both in the CLI and in lanes.
Take note that match is a `sync_code_signing` action. 
There is one small new twist: Because match requires access to your new private repo, we begin by running:
```bash
fastlane match init
```
We're prompted to enter the URL of our private git repo and the process completes with a helpful summary. 
<!-- Show in Finder / Code -->
As you can see, this has created a new `Matchfile` with your repo's URL. You've previously seen `Appfile`, and you'll encounter several more examples of storing project information in this kind of a settings file. An additional benefit to this approach is that all configurations are automatically committed — and shared to all team members — as part of the project repo itself.
## Removing the Clutter
There's one last optional setup step: If you're reusing an existing developer account with `match`, fastlane recommends you clear out your preexisting certificates and profiles:
```bash
fastlane match nuke development
fastlane match nuke distribution
fastlane match nuke enterprise  #if needed
```
You'll be prompted to select your team and to confirm that you *really* want to do this. If this makes you catch your breath, feel free to skip this step. And if you following fastlane's advice to a fresh account just to store your team credentials, you won't need this step at all. 
## Creating Team Dev Certs and Profiles
That takes care of our one time set up, and I'm ready to set up a whole new set of development assets, encrypt and upload them to my new git repo, and store the decrypted keys locally. 
I do all that with:
```bash
fastlane match development
```
Match prompts me to input my app bundle identifier, then a passphrase for encryption. Take this passphrase every bit as seriously as you would any mission-critical password: Make it strong, unique and store it securely. I'm using 1Password to generate and securely store mine.
For completeness, I'll also run:
```bash
fastlane match adhoc
fastlane match appstore
```
…so that we'll have these in place later on when we need them.
All right. Let's view the results in our private repo…
<!-- show repo in browser -->
With that single command, match has created a full set of team development code signing assets. All certificates with their private keys live in a `certs` folder, and all profiles live in the `profiles` folder, all encrypted by OpenSSL. **match** also adds a README with helpful onboarding instructions for other team members. Pretty amazing!
Whenever I need to set up a new development machine for my team, all I'll have to do is follow this simple READ ME, and I'll be good to go!
That's it for setup. Now let's look at using match in a lane:
# Lecture
## Lane use
As with other actions you've seen, using `match` in a lane is clean and simple: 
**[Slide ]** Match actions in a lane 
```ruby
lane :match_maker do
	match(type: "development") # can also be "adhoc", "appstore" or "enterprise" 
end
```
If needed, you could supply git info, but you've handled that in your Matchfile. 
You can specify other types (notably "adhoc" and "appstore". You'll do this in a later section when we focus on these phases of app development.
Finally, the `force_for_new_devices` is useful, as it automatically regenerates your provisioning profile if your team's device count has changed. You can alternately simply use the `force` option, which causes the profile to be regenerated every time the lane is run.
# Conclusion
Match delivers on fastlane's vision of making it easy to use a team-based approach to code signing. In the next episode, you'll get hands-on experience with match, as you create a new lane just for match actions. See you there!