# Introduction
Apple’s TestFlight is a great service. But `fastlane` is all about options, and many developers choose to use third party beta testing services. If you're one of them, don't worry… fastlane's got you covered here too.
# Lecture
**[Slide 1]**
If you step outside TestFlight, you have a lot of options. These include long-term options like Crashlytics (now part of Google Fabric) and HockeyApp (now part of the Microsoft App Center). And options like Tryouts, Deploy Gate, Test Fairy and Appetize offer some compelling advantages as well. 
**[Slide 2]**
If you'd like to explore one of these services, where do you begin? As usual, your starting point is `fastlane's` actions page, where everything your beta testing heart could desire is ready and waiting in the `beta` category —  it’s a veritable smorgasbord of tasty options. 
The actions in this category have a clear pattern: For each third party provider you might choose, there's a dedicated action matching it. Perfect.
Let's review a few of these to see the basic patterns…
**[Slide 3]**
I'll start with the `craashlytics` action. 
This is the first action we've seen that steps outside Apple's Walled Garden. It's really great to see that the same conventions we've come to know all follow through here. Thanks `fastlane`!
The only caveat is that these actions only run within lanes, and as we just saw with `increment_build_number` this again makes sense, as these actions are built to be part of workflows, not ad hoc CLI actions. 
You'll find that basic use is generally similar across this class of action, but specific parameters for each are naturally driven by a given service's specific requirements. Here's what a basic lane action looks like for Crashlytics:
```ruby
crashlytics(
  crashlytics_path: "path/to/binary", 
  api_token: "my-token",
  build_secret: "my-secret"
)
```
You can add a lot more fine-grained control over paths, groups, emails, notes, and notifications if you'd like:
```ruby
crashlytics(
  crashlytics_path: "path/to/binary", 
  api_token: "my-token",
  build_secret: "my-secret",
  notes: "howdy howdy... i am a cowboy",
  ipa_path: "path/to/ipa/file",
  groups: "comma", "separated", "list",
  notifications: false,
  debug: true
)
```
## Caveats
Let's pause and make note of a couple things:
- First, you might note that in the basic form, I didn't need to specify where the .ipa file to be uploaded lives in my project. This is due to a nice `fastlane` sugar: As long as my workflow also uses  `gym` to build the archive I'll upload, `fastlane` already knows where the binaries are. 
- Second, you might wonder if there's a better way to handle notes than to have to manually enter them into a lane, since of course you'd have to manually update the lane itself every time you ran this action.
**[Slide 4]** [Lane Context][2]
`fastlane's` `Lane Context` is a great solution for this kind of issue. `Lane Context` is a shared hash designed to let `fastlane` actions communicate with each other. The syntax for any hash-stored value is:
```ruby
lane_context[SharedValues::<value_type>]
```
This is the mechanism that allows the `crashlytics` action to know where `gym` placed the binary file to be uploaded, thanks to the `IPA_OUTPUT_PATH` hash entry. 
Some third party test services require a DSYM path, available via the `DSYM_OUTPUT_PATH` hash entry.
The `increment_build_number`you saw in the last episode relies on `BUILD_NUMBER`. And finally, the `VERSION_NYMBER`	 hash entry can be very useful as well.
Getting back to our hard-coded notes, we might replace those with:
```ruby
	crashlytics(notes: "Version {lane_context[SharedValues::VERSION_NUMBER]}, Build {lane_context[SharedValues::BUILD_NUMBER]}"
```
**[Slide 5]**
Let's say that I want to use HockeyApp instead. In that case, I'd choose the `hockey` action, whose simple form looks like:
```ruby
hockey(
  api_token: "my-token",
  notes: "Build {lane_context[SharedValues::BUILD_NUMBER]}"
)
```
Here’s a more detailed example:
```ruby
hockey(
  api_token: "my-token",
  notes: "Build #{lane_context[SharedValues::BUILD_NUMBER]}",
  create_update: true,
  public_identifier: "identifier",
  bundle_short_version: "1.0.2",
  bundle_version: "1.0.2.145",
  ipa: "./my.msi",
  bypass_cdn: true
)
```
Invoking the `hockey` action in its basic form is drop-dead simple: All I need to do is specify my Hockey-provided token. I can do a lot more if desired, and again, the help resources are right where you'd expect them.
**[Slide 6]** Tryouts
Let's review one more. If I wanted to use  `tryouts`, I'd cleverly choose the… `tryouts` action.
```ruby
tryouts(
  api_token: "my-token",
  app_id: "application-id",
  notes: "Build {lane_context[SharedValues::BUILD_NUMBER]}"
)
```

```ruby
tryouts(
  api_token: "my-token",
  app_id: "application-id",
  notes: "Build {lane_context[SharedValues::BUILD_NUMBER]}",
  build_file: "path/to/ipa/file",
  notify: 0,
  status: 2
)
```
Obviously, you need to initially sign up and configure each service. But once that's done, integration with any supported service almost seems *too* easy. 
# Conclusion
`fastlane's` support for third party testing services is exemplary, and its cross-action consistency shines especially bright here. Bottom line: You're free to choose the services you like best, knowing that `fastlane` will make integration a snap.
Alright! In the next episode, it'll be your turn: You'll set up custom lanes to distribute your app for beta testing via both TestFlight *and* a third party service of your choice. I'll see you there!