# Introduction
In this episode, we'll introduce `pilot`, the fastlane action that's dedicated to improve all things TestFlight. If you're not a fan of pointing, clicking, typing, and lots of waiting, I think you'll love this episode!
# Exercise
**[Slide ]** Pilot Logo and homepage.
Once again, `pilot` is consistent with other fastlane actions, so using it in the CLI or in lanes builds directly on what you already know. And once again, you can use the same conventions for getting more info about it, in this case via `fastlane pilot --help`, `fastlane actions pilot` and on its documentation page at `docs.fastlane.tools/actions/pilot/`.

## Uploading a Build
Uploading a build to TestFlight with `pilot` in the command line is as simple as running:
```bash
fastlane pilot upload
```
Once again, `pilot` uses sensible defaults, and thanks to this, so long as you have a valid .ipa file in your project directory, it pretty much "just works" in this basic form. Your current fastlane session credentials will be reused, and if you've set up your Apple Developer account with two-step verification, pilot will detect this and prompt you to enter an app-specific password.  
I can include a changelog using:
```bash
fastlane pilot upload --changelog "My awesome changes..."
```
And upload an app but choose *not* to distribute it to my TestFlight testers just yet with:
```bash
fastlane pilot upload --skip_submission
```
To round this out, I can quickly see my uploaded builds with
```bash
fastlane pilot builds
```
## Managing Testers
That seems almost… *too* easy. How about managing testers?
Here too, things are really clean. To add a new external tester and associate them with an external test group, use:
```bash
fastlane pilot add peep@company.com -g MyTestGroup
```
We can view all registered testers for our app with:
```bash
fastlane pilot list
```
And if we'd like more info about someone on that list, we can run:
```bash
fastlane pilor find mister_e@mystery.net
```
Removing a tester is simple too:
```bash
fastlane pilot remove later@gater.cc
```
There's also very nice functionality for importing and exporting all external testers in bulk via CSV.
## One More Thing
There's one more fastlane tool to quickly review before moving on.
**[Slide ]** Manually incrementing the build number
It's natural to need to increment the build number of an app before archiving and distributing this. You can of course do this manually each time, but it's easy to forget.
**[Slide ]** Action documentation page
Fastlane has a special action to do this, logically called `increment_build_number`. Unlike the other actions we've seen, this one doesn't work directly in the command line, so you'll only use this within lanes. You can pass a specific value you'd like to set the build number to, but generally, simply invoking `increment_build_number` without arguments is perfect, as it simply increments our build number to the next integer value each time it's invoked.
To use the `increment_build_number` action (and you'll do this in the next episode), you'll first need to enable versioning in your Xcode project, since by default, Xcode doesn't use a versioning system. To do this, select your target, navigate to Build Settings and then set "Versioning System" to "Apple Generic". While you're there, make sure your current build number is at a good baseline integer value. By the way, note that Xcode calls the current build value "Current project Version" in the Build Settings Tab, but simply "Build" in the General tab. 



## Conclusion
`pilot` is an amazing tool. When you stop to think just how much manual pointing and clicking, typing and waiting it saves you, it can see almost uncanny.
In the next episode, we'll explore the options available if you choose to use another distribution service (like crashlytics or hockey app) instead of iTunesConnect. See you there…
