# Introduction
In this episode, I’ll introduce `pilot`, the `fastlane` action that's dedicated to improve all things related to Apple TestFlight. If you're not a fan of pointing, clicking, typing and endlessly waiting, I think you'll love this episode!
# Lecture
## Without fastlane
Conventionally, uploading an app to TestFlight looks something like this:
- **[Slide 1]** Log in to App Store Connect, navigate to MyApps, select a team and then the desired team app, select the TestFlight tab, click Test Information, and finally, manually submit the needed info.
- **[Slide 2]** Manually submit a build, either via Xcode or App Store Connect. Either way, there are several more manual steps to click through, along with lots of thumb twiddling to be done.
- **[Slide 3]** Oops. Forgot to increment the build number. Rinse and repeat.
- **[Slide 4]** Add internal testers in App Store Connect, selecting `App Store Connect Users` and manually adjusting users as needed.
- **[Slide 5]** Now it's time to add external testers. Select "All Testers", create or select groups, and either enter a CSV file you manually created, or enter and invite external users one by one. Then select which build you want each external group to test and enter testing information for each group. 
There are variations and some recent improvements from Apple, but the basic steps remain. Ad Hoc distribution is of course different, but isn’t fundamentally simpler in most respects.


# Demo
## Pilot
<!-- Start with pilot page in browser -->
`fastlane's` answer to this conventional festival of point, click, type, and wait is `pilot`. Under the hood,`pilot` is an alias for the `upload_to_testflight` action .
 `pilot` also follows `fastlane's` conventions and uses its trademark sensible defaults, so basic command line use is as simple as running:
```bash
fastlane pilot upload
```
<!-- Run the comnmand, showing (lengthy) results -->


You can get a quick list of your uploaded builds with download counts using:
```bash
fastlane pilot builds
```
Or list all testers with:
```bash
fastlane pilot list
```
I can get get info about a given tester using:
```bash
fastlane pilot find brian_schick@icloud.com
```
There's much more you can do in the CLI — including adding and removing testers. But as usual, let's move briskly on to lane usage.


## Lane Use
Basic In-lane use is predictable and simple as usual:
```ruby
lane :zoom_baby do
  pilot
end
```
And as with the other actions you've seen,  `pilot` has a large contingent of parameters to let you tune its behavior in just about any way you might imagine. As usual, see the action's documentation for more info.

# Lecture
## increment\_build\_number
Since we're automating things, there's no way we want to have to manually remember to increment our app's build number whenever we build and distribute our apps. Happily, `fastlane` has a dedicated action called `increment_build_number`. 
**[Slide 6]** Unlike the other actions we've seen, you can only run `increment_build_number` in a lane. This makes sense, because it's designed to be used only as part of a larger process. 
By default, the action simply increments the integer value of your build number by one. You can also optionally pass it a fixed value if desired.
There's one small caveat: Xcode doesn't use any versioning system by default, and therefore it won't increment its build number without some setup. 
**[Slide 7]** 
Here's how to resolve this: 
- open Xcode, select your target and choose Build Settings.
- Find the "Versioning System" property and set it to "Apple Generic".
- Last, select your project Run target, and in the Info pane make sure your "Build" setting is set either to 1 (for new projects) or whatever your current production build value is.
You may note that Xcode interchanges the terms "Build" and "Current Project Version" in some places. Just keep an eye out for this.
You'll take advantage of versioning in your next Challenge. 
One last thing: Please take a moment right now to enable versioning with the steps we just described. As always, please pause the video, and I’ll see you when that’s complete.
# Pause for User Action
# Resume
# Conclusion
Thanks for taking care of that.
In the next episode, we'll explore the options available if you choose to use another distribution service instead of iTunesConnect. See you there…