# Introduction
The time has arrived: Your app is coming together nicely and you're getting ready to distribute it to testers. The first step of this is creating an Archive build and obtain a certificate for test distribution. As you think the build steps though, your heart sinks just a bit.
# Lecture
## Manual Build Steps
**[Slide ]** 
To start, you need to register all your test devices on the Apple Developer portal. Thankfully, you've already seen how fastlane makes this a simple and automatic process. But that's just the start…
**[Slide ]** 
For every build you want to test, you'll need to manually create an archive. It's easy enough to select a generic device and choose Product \> Archive. But Xcode needs to validate your app, which includes provision checking and much more. And if anything goes wrong, you'll get a dreaded warning and need to manually track down and fix the errors.
**[Slide ]** 
Then, you'll move on to Xcode's Organizer window, where you'll need to choose whether you want to distribute your app via Test Flight or a service like HockeyApp, and Xcode will then generate a distribution or ad hoc certificate matching your choice.
**[Slide ]** 
Next up, you'll choose a development team and a related developer account, whether the app is Universal or device-specific, if there are any on-demand resources to be uploaded, including a potential manifest file for app-thinning. At the end of all this, Xcode will download an essential .ipa file enabling you to distribute your app. 
**[Slide ]** 
While none of this is rocket science, all this point-and-clicking to make manual choices is cumbersome, repetitive, and time-consuming, and I'm sure you can think of lots of better ways to spend your development time.
**[Slide ]** xcodebuild
There has been a traditional alternative for those wanting to avoid this manual process. Xcode's command line tool `xcodebuild` can automate this process. But as you can see, the command's syntax isn't exactly easy to remember, and there's a lot of opportunities for error. Powerful as this option is, I'd guess most developers typically choose the slower Xcode approach over this.
## Introducing Gym
**[Slide ]** 
You won't be surprised to hear that fastlane has a plan to make this all *much* better. `gym` is fastlane's purpose-built active that's designed tame to this repetitive process. It's built to handle all the heavy lifting, from creating your archive to code signing your app for testing.
Let's take a closer look:
# Exercise
Like other actions you've seen, it's extremely simple to invoke `gym`directly in the command line: 
```bash
fastlane gym
```
Obviously, `gym`'s syntax is a whole lot cleaner than the `xcodebuild` (although under the hood, `xcodebuild` is one of the core tools `gym` leverages). You'll find `gym` takes a bit longer than the other actions you've seen so far, because it's building your archive, checking its validity, and assuming it passes, packages your app into an .ipa file. Not bad for a two word command!
# Interlude
**[Slide ]** .ipa file in Get Info
You might notice that if we try to inspect the all-important .ipa file, we don't get much for our effort. 
**[Slide ]** ProvisionQL [https://github.com/ealeksandrov/ProvisionQL][1]
Fastlane suggests adding a simple open source Quick Look plugin to remedy this, called ProvisionQL. You can see its homepage here (point to slide)  I'll install this with homebrew:
```bash
brew cask install provisionql
```
**[Slide ]** Improved QuickLook of .ipa file
…and when I Quick Look the .ipa file this time, now I get a good deal of helpful information. Like any Quick Look plugin, this doesn't display in Get Info, but does play nicely with both Finder's Column View preview pane and Mojave's new Gallery view. I'd highly recommend grabbing this helpful tool. 
# Exercise
## Following fastlane conventions
Gym follows the conventions you've seen with fastlane's other actions: You can learn more about its many command line options using:
```bash
fastlane gym --help
```
… more about using it in a lane with:
```bash
fastlane actions gym
```
… and finally, its main page is at [https://docs.fastlane.tools/actions/gym][2]
One other fastlane convention we haven't called out yet that really shines here is `gym`'s use of intelligent defaults. Given how much `gym` does for us, it's pretty great that a simple `fastlane gym` command is all we need to run it with defaults. 
## Gym options
Let's take a look at some of `gym`'s very complete set of advanced options. As always, these are available both in lanes and the command line (which we'll use here to demo).
We can choose a workspace and/or scheme with the --workspace and --scheme parameters. And if we want to require a clean-and-build (like Xcode Command-K) we'd use --clean. So, I could say:
```bash
fastlane gym --workspace "Myworkspace.xcworkspace" --scheme "MyScheme" --clean
```
`gym` gives us full control over our distribution methods too. If I don't want to upload to TestFlight (say, if I'm using HockeyApp or Crashlytics), I could say
```bash
fastlane gym --export_method ad-hoc
```
And if I want to export to a specific directory, I can say
```bash
fastlane gym --output_directory "MyDirectory"
```
There's a great deal more possible. For example, `gym` lets you specify manifest files, choose thinning options, whether or not to include symbols and bitcode, and much more. As usual, `gym`'s documentation page is the best starting point for finding out more about all these possibilities.
## Gymfile
Finally, fastlane realizes you may want to run `gym` without having to manually specify all these options. In this case, you can create an optional `Gymfile` to store project configurations. To do this, run:
```bash
fastlane gym init
```
This creates a new `Gymfile` in your project `fastlane` subdirectory. Similar to its `Fastfile` and `Appfile` siblings you've already seen, this is another Ruby configuration file letting you set defaults, in this case, specifically for `gym` itself. 
The default file simply specifies the project root as its output directory. We could quickly tune this by uncommenting a few lines and adding custom settings to something like this:
```ruby
clean(true)
scheme "MyScheme"
workspace "MyWorkspace"
sdk "iphoneos12.1"
output_directory("./build")
output_name("MyApp") 
```
These settings will now apply to all uses of `gym` in both the command line and in lanes, unless you supersede them with either command line parameters or Fastfile lane configurations.
This is a good place to review fastlane's approach to defaults. In general, it takes this approach across its actions:
- Use sensible defaults out of the box.
- Add ad hoc CLI customization via params.
- Provide a dedicated configuration file for enduring project CLI settings (`Fastfile`, `Gymfile`, etc.).
- Configure in lanes for complete per-task settings control.
This is an excellent design pattern, and you'll see it consistently throughout fastlane.
# Conclusion
As you've seen, `gym` is a real workhorse action that's easy to use but also highly configurable. It lays the foundation for everything fastlane can do to help improve your distribution workflow.
In the next section you'll go hands on with `gym`, as you create a new lane for it, and customize it in multiple ways. See you there!

[1]:	https://github.com/ealeksandrov/ProvisionQL
[2]:	https://docs.fastlane.tools/actions/gym