# Intro
In this episode, you'll meet your match. By which I of course mean that you'll meet fastlane's premiere action for implementing its ambitious vision of team-oriented code-signing.
# Lecture
## Introducing Match
**[Slide 1]** 
`match` is designed to fully deliver on fastlane's ambitious vision for team-based code signing. `match` is tasked with handling the heavy lifting of creating, encrypting, and securely storing a team's certificates and profiles in a single git repository, and then again to retrieve, decrypt, and utilize these on individual developer's machines.
One measure of `match's` ambition is `fastlane's` pledge that a team can set up code signing on a new machine in less than a minute! Another is its promise to make all the machinery of maintaining this schema transparent. These are big visions to live up to: Let's take a closer look.
## Setting up a Private Git Repository
**[Slide 2]** 
To use match, you must first set up a a **private** git repository dedicated solely to store your team certificates.  Let me repeat that: Your code signing repo must be  **private** or else life as we know it will end. 
At the time of recording, GitHub, GitLab, and BitBucket all let you create private repos with free accounts. It's your choice.
Here are the basic steps to set this up:
**[Slide 3]** 
- If needed, choose a git hosting service, create a free account, and provide your basic info and public key. Be sure to both use a strong, unique password, and set up Two Factor authentication. 
- Log into your account and begin creation of a new `repository`. If you’re using gitlab, note that it uses the term `project` instead of the standard git term `repository`.
- Make sure that you make your new repo **private**. 
- Name the account "Certificates" or similar and complete its creation.
- Do one last check that your repo is really private. 
Rather than add these manual steps to our next challenge, I’m going to ask you to please take a moment and do this right now. Take your time to make sure to set up 2 factor auth, and double check that your repo is private. Please pause the video now, make it so, and resume when you're done.
# Pause for Setup
# Resume
Welcome back, and thanks for taking care of that now. 
**[Slide 4]**
There's one last optional setup step to review.
`fastlane` suggests you might want to add a new Apple Developer Portal account and dedicate this to `match` team assets. This dedicated account — perhaps named something like **team@myorg.com** — avoids mixing personal and team-based assets in the same bucket. I'd recommend this as a best practice.
Once again, if you'd like to do this, please go ahead and set this up now.
## Match
**[Slide 5]** 
With the preliminaries set up, it's time to meet `match`. `match` documentation and usage follow the same conventions you've seen with the other fastlane actions you've met so far. Note that match is an alias the the sync\_code\_signing action.
# Demo
## Initializing Match
`match` follows the fastlane conventions you’ve seen, but it does introduce one new twist: Because it requires access to your new private repository, we begin by running `fastlane match init`:
```bash
fastlane match init
```
I’m prompted to choose whether my private repo is in git or google cloud
and then to enter the  URL of our private git repo, 
and the process completes with a helpful summary. 

<!-- Show in Finder / Code -->

As you can see, this has created a new `Matchfile` with our repo's URL. You've previously seen `Appfile`, and you'll encounter several more examples of storing project information in this kind of a settings file. An additional benefit to this approach is that all configurations are automatically committed — and shared to all team members — as part of the project repo itself.
A quick note: If you're using the stock version of Ruby that comes with macOS, you may see version warnings when you run `match`. You can safely ignore these since we're using fastlane with `git`, and the warning applies only to integrations with `Google Cloud`. 

## Removing the Clutter
There's one last optional setup step: If instead of creating a fresh account, you've opted to reuse an existing developer account with `match`, fastlane recommends that you clear out your preexisting certificates and profiles, so that you start with a clean slate. To do this you’d run:
<!-- Just say these, don't execute them -->
```bash
fastlane match nuke development
fastlane match nuke distribution
fastlane match nuke enterprise
```


## Creating Team Dev Certs and Profiles
That takes care of  setting up`match` for our project. We’re now ready to set up a complete new set of development assets, encrypt and upload them to our git repo, and store the decrypted keys locally. 
All it takes to do all this in the command line is:
```bash
fastlane match development
```
Match prompts for a passphrase for encryption. Take this passphrase every bit as seriously as you would any mission-critical password: Make it strong, unique and store it securely. I'm using 1Password to generate and securely store mine.
<!-- Get from 1Password, paste it in, and run the rest of the command -->
For completeness, I'll also run:
```bash
fastlane match adhoc
fastlane match appstore
```
…so that we'll have these in place later on when we need them.
Please pause to complete these steps now. I’ll see you when you’re done


# Pause for Setup
# Resume
## Reviewing the Results
All right. Let's view the results in our private repo…
<!-- show repo in browser -->
With 3 simple commands, match has created a full set of team code signing assets for all phases of iOS development. 
All certificates with their private keys live in a `certs` folder, 
<!-- show in browser -->
and all profiles live in the `profiles` folder
<!-- show in browser -->
and again, all these assets are encrypted by OpenSSL using the passphrase you enter. 
Last, **match** also adds a README with helpful onboarding instructions for other team members. 
<!-- show in browser -->
Sweet!
From here on out, whenever anyone on my needs to set up a new development machine, all they’ll have to do is follow this simple READ ME, and the new machine will be good to go! 
That's it for setup. Next, let's look at using match in a lane:
# Lecture
## Lane use
As with other actions you've seen, using `match` in a lane is clean and simple: 
**[Slide 6]** 
You don't need to include your git info here, because it's cleanly stored in your newly-created `Matchfile`. 
Currently, match is only addressing `development` code signing assets. You'll later add `adhoc` and `appstore` when we focus on these phases of app development.
**[Slide 7]** 
One particularly useful parameter is `force_for_new_devices`. It automatically regenerates your provisioning profile if your team's device count has changed. You can alternately choose the `force` option, which simply causes the profile to be regenerated every time the lane is run. 
# Conclusion
Match delivers on `fastlane's` vision of making it easy to use a team-based approach to code signing, and given how much engineering and how many pieces have to align for team-based signing to work, I at least find match to be a great piece of both technical and human design. 
In the next episode, you'll get hands-on experience with match, as you create a new lane just for match actions. See you there!