# Introduction
It's time to install fastlane. Let's dive right in…
# Lecture
**[Slide ]** Fastlane Logo?
`fastlane` is an integrated set of tools whose goal is to automate and vastly improve how you work with the App Store ecosystem. `fastlane` contains a large number atomic actions, each focused on a specific App Store or other developer workflow task. On a deeper level, fastlane is an environment designed around *lanes*, which are workflow scripts built of fastlane actions, and transforming them into meta tools capable of performing complex App Store tasks with just a single command.
**[Slide ]** Aiming high
Fastlane is ambitious: It doesn't just want to make things a bit better: It seeks to streamline your — and your team's — entire iOS development lives.
For example, let's consider the manual steps involved in preparing and polishing your screenshots and all the metadata. In Section 3, you'll build your own fastlane to handle *everything* in this process with one single command. Just think of the damage you can do with all that saved time!
## Historical Overview
**[Slide ]** 
`fastlane` is an open source project on GitHub. It was the brainchild of Felix Krause, who developed and open sourced it in 2014 Felix and other members of the fastlane team also kindly assisted with this video course — big thanks, Felix. 
`fastlane` quickly generated a lot of interest. It was acquired by Twitter in 2015 and added to the Fabric platform. In 2017, Google acquired Fabric, and fastlane and Felix both joined the Google fold. Happily, the project continues to be open source on Github, continues to be very actively updated, and Felix continues to contribute actively. 
## Technical Overview
**[Slide ]** Ruby and Gears?
`fastlane` is a command line utility. Like many of the best tools in this area, it's built with Ruby. 
Here's what this means for your weekend 🙂: Throughout this course, as you develop your custom lanes, you'll be working in Ruby rather than Swift. You might wonder why this is. 
Although the fastlane team has experimented with beta Swift implementations, Felix and team highly advise using Ruby in production. At present, the Swift tools aren't feature complete, and the consensus is that working directly with the Ruby codebase is most performant and effective at present.
If you're not a Rubyist, don't worry: Frankly, I'm a Ruby hack, and I've found working with fastlane intuitive and straightforward. If I can do this, so can you!
To this end, I'll make sure you know everything you need to to work with fastlane and build your own lanes. And remember that we'll stop for challenges every few episodes, so you'll build up your fastlane chops along the way.
## The fastlane Site
**[Slide ]** [https://fastlane.tools][1]
The public home of the fastlane project is fastlane.tools. Note the **Docs** link, which takes us directly to to docs.fastlane.tools.
**[Slide ]** [docs.fastlane.tools][2].
Fastlane docs will be *our* home throughout this course. This is a rich resource filled with information  about how best to use fastlane, and detailed reference info about its actions, plugins, integrations and best practices. I'll refer to key resources here throughout this course.
**[Slide ]** [https://github.com/fastlane/fastlane][3]
As an open-source project, fastlane itself lives on GitHub. Any time you find yourself wanting to peek under the hood (highly encouraged!) the source of truth lives here. 
## Tools
I'll conclude this section with a quick mention of tools we'll use throughout this course. We *will* use Xcode now and again as we integrate fastlane workflows into our sample project, but we'll spend most of our time in two applications: Terminal and a code editor. Since these 2 tools will be so central to this course, let's do a quick flyover of both:
**[Slide ]** Terminal and iTerm
MacOS's built-in `Terminal` app is a free and solid tool for everything we'll need. If you'd like to take a step up to a power option, `iTerm` is a paid power tool that does everything Terminal does while adding an incredible array of additional functionality. 
**[Slide ]** Our Command Line vid courses
If you're not fully comfortable working with Terminal, consider checking out our **Command Line Basics** video course — a great way to solidify your command line skillset. If you're looking to take your command line prowess to the next level, our **Advanced Command Line** video course is ready and waiting.
**[Slide ]** Code Editors
Now on to code editors. First off, although you *could* use Xcode for editing fastlane files, I'd strongly suggest choosing an alternative code editor.
If you don't already have a favorite mac code editor, here are some standouts:
<!-- Update slide for each editor mentioned here -->
- The granddaddy of the bunch is the Venerable Terminal-based `Vim`. `Vim` is a fantastic editor, but it's only for terminal die hards. If that's you, check it out.
- `Sublime Text` is a long-established cross-platform GUI code editor that's blazingly fast and deeply extensible. It's not free, but is quite reasonable. It's one downside is that it can be a bit hard to learn compared to more modern choices.
- `Atom` is a relatively new open-source code editor from GitHub. It's free,  cross-platform, deeply customizable and extensible. It's not as fast as `Sublime`, but is simpler to learn.
- `VSCode`  is Microsoft's free,  cross-platform code editor. Many developers were initially skeptical, but it's rapidly becoming a developer favorite, with a huge developer community and an exploding arsenal of these and extensions. 
If you don't have a current favorite, it's worth taking a bit of time to find a tool you're comfortable with. 
# Conclusion
In the next episode, you'll install fastlane on your mac. See you there…

[1]:	https://fastlane.tools
[2]:	https://docs.fastlane.tools
[3]:	https://github.com/fastlane