# Intro
In this episode, you'll meet `fastlane's` basic action for automating management of development certificates.
# Lecture
## About Signing Certificates
**[Slide 1]** 
Signing certificates play an essential role in Apple's security scheme, functioning as a form of verifiable digital ID. Like a physical form of ID, a certificate proves your identity. Unlike a physical ID, the certificate also serves as the basis of app signing. 
**[Slide 2]**
if you use automatic code signing, Xcode silently handles obtaining certificates for you. This process is so transparent that it's possible to completely miss the significant work Xcode does on our behalf. 
Briefly, a Code Signing Request is completed and submitted to Apple, which obtains a Developer certificate plus intermediate certificates on your behalf. Certificates use public | private pairs of asymmetrical keys. The public key is stored in the Developer Portal, but the private key is stored solely in your local keychain. Guard it well, grasshopper…
Unfortunately, certificates can and do develop problems. And when they do, manually resolving these can release a Pandora's box of blue meanies. Automation can improve this.
## Documentation
**[Slide 3]**
The fastlane action for automating certificate requests is `cert`.
Like all `fastlane` actions, `cert` is nicely focused on a single task. It also follows follows the documentation and usage conventions we introduced earlier, another thing that's consistent throughout `fastlane`.
**[Slide 4]**
If I hadn't spilled the beans already about which action to use, you'd start at fastlane's `actions` page, where you'd find a section devoted to `Code Signing`. `cert` is listed here, and a quick click gets us to its documentation home.
**[Slide 5]** 
Again following convention, `cert's` home page is predictably at `…/actions/cert`. You can see that `cert`￼ is an alias for the `get_certificates` action. Here — and throughout this course — I'll use the short forms of each command — and in this case, that's `cert`. As with Swift type aliases, you're of course free to use whichever alias you like best… just be consistent across your lanes.
**[Slide 6]**
Again, the Usage section begins with command line usage, while lane syntax and parameters are listed at the bottom of the page. 
**[Slide 7]** 
By the way… you may notice a callout on this page suggested to use the newer `match` action in most cases. We'll do exactly this in Section 2 of this course. However, `cert` is a simpler action that's a better learning tool for now.
# Demo
## Command Line
OK, let's take `cert` our for a spin. Once again, we'll use Terminal as our fastlane sandbox.
From my project root directory I run:
```bash
fastlane cert
```
Because I've used the basic form of the command, I'm again prompted for my Apple ID then asked to select a team. Then the magic begins:
- `cert` establishes a valid Developer Portal session then checks for a valid iOS Certificate.
- If it finds one, `cert` makes sure it's installed locally.
- If none is found, `cert`  creates and stores a new private key in my keychain, submits a new signing request, obtains and install a new Certificate. 
Not bad for a start!

But what else can we do in the command line? I'll run `fastlane <action> --help` to see:
```bash
fastlane cert --help
```
Reading the documentation, I realize that by default, `cert` concerns itself with *distribution* certificates. As you probably know, Apple uses different sets of certificates for *development* and *distribution*. This section is focused on the iOS Development workflow, so I'll run:
```bash
fastlane cert --development
```
Much better. 
If I wanted to avoid prompts for my Apple ID and team, I could enter:
```bash
fastlane cert --development -u bschick1@mac.com -l "Brian Schick"
```


I can also quickly find and revoke any expired certificates like this
```bash
fastlane cert revoke_expired
```
Last, before we leave terminal, I'll get a quick list of `cert's` in-lane Ruby parameters:
```bash
fastlane actions cert
```


## Lanes
Now let's take a look at using `cert` in a lane that's stored in your project `Fastfile`. As you saw previously with `produce`, using `cert` this way is quite straightforward:
```ruby
lane :sandbox do
  cert
end
```
Here, as in the CLI, the default command gets *distribution* certs. To specify that I want a *development* certificate and include my credentials, I'd run:
```ruby
  lane :sandbox do
    cert(
      username: "bschick1@mac.com",
      team_name: "Brian Schick",
      development: true
    )
  end 
```

One last tip: Both the command line and lanes give you helpful feedback if you goof up syntactically. For example, I’ll intentionally include a non-existent `revoke_expired` parameter in my lane, 
and then run my lane.

fastlane helpfully responds:
```bash
Could not find option 'revoke_expired' in the list of available options: development, force, username, team_id, team_name, filename, output_path, keychain_path, keychain_password, platform
```
If you ever wonder if an action's documentation might be out of sync, you can always use this trick to get a quick printout of all available parameters and save your sanity :]
# Summary
That wraps up `cert`. In the next episode, we'll move on to fastlane's action for provisioning profiles. See you there…