# Introduction
In this episode, you'll learn how to set up `snapshot` for a project, so that it can capture and organize every screenshot you need for your app.
# Lecture
**[Slide 1]** Snapshot documentation home
Once again, `snapshot` follows fastlane's wonderfully consistent documentation and usage conventions, so that once it's set up, it works and "thinks" just as you'd expect. 
However, as you've just seen, `snapshot` leverages a significantly different set of underlying tools to do its magic. Because of this, setup is much different than for other actions you've seen. 
To set up `snapshot` for a project,
**[Slide 2]** 
<!-- Editor: Please click slide to match bullet points -->
- You begin by creating a dedicated UI Test Target and Scheme in Xcode.
- Next, you run `snapshot init` in Terminal to generate a custom `SnapshotHelper` Swift file.
- Back in Xcode, add `Snapshot Helper` to your Test target and then
- Record a simple UI test  steps through each desired view
- And last, you add simple code snippets to trigger each snapshot
**[Slide 3]** 
By the way, if you're new to iOS UI Testing or would like a refresher, a great starting point is our [Testing in iOS][1] video course. That said, in a moment I'll show you how to easily record a walkthrough of the screens we need to snapshot.


# Demo
## Setup
Let's take a closer look…
First, I'll create a new project Xcode Target. 
I select "iOS **UI** Testing Bundle" and name it `Fastlane Snapshots`. 
To keep my screen shot automation separated from my actual UI Tests, I'll create a new scheme as well. I'll name it `Fastlane Snapshots` and link it to my new target of the same name. 
Last, I need to enable my news scheme's Run setting. `snapshot` will require this to in order to trigger taking automated screen shots.


Now that I have a dedicated scheme and target, I'll switch to Terminal and run:
```ruby
fastlane snapshot init
```
<!-- Show in Finder -->
This creates a new `Snapfile` that we'll return to in a moment. It also generates several assets, including the `SnapshotHelper` file that we'll use next.


<!-- Switch to Xcode -->
Back in Xcode, I add the newly-generated `SnapshotHelper` file to my `FastlaneScreenshots` target. 
Next, I open `Fastlane_Snapshots` and configure its `setUp()` method following the in-Terminal instructions:
<!-- Copy and paste from Terminal -->
```swift
    let app = XCUIApplication()
    setupSnapshot(app)
    app.launch()
```


Now I'm ready to create a UITest. I'll stub out a new `testSnapshot()` method, put my cursor on a blank line inside it, and click "Record". 


Once my simulator launches, each interaction with my app will be programmatically added to my method. 
<!-- Hit record and launch -->

Now I just step through my screens… 
and then click Record once again to end recording. I'll clean up any unwanted artifacts of recording, and my code to step through my screens is all set.
Now I just need to insert a  `snapshot` function call at each point where I want a snapshot taken.  Since the name I pass will be appended to an auto-generated name, I'm going to give each snapshot instance a sequential number and a description.
<!-- Insert the snapshot function calls -->
That completes our Xcode setup. I know that's a lot, but remember that you just need to do this wiring up once per project.
By the way, you'll be doing these steps yourself in the next episode's basic challenge. Feel free to return to this section then as needed.


## Snapfile
There's one last thing we need to do complete our setup, and that's to tune the `Snapfile`. You may remember that this file was generated when we wan `snapshot init` earlier. 
<!-- Reveal in Finder and open in Code Editor, setting syntax to Rubyh -->
`Snapfile` is another fastlane Ruby configuration file that holds defaults for all uses of `spanshot`, whether in the CLI or lanes. In addition to typical parameter settings, this is also your command center for specifying the matrix of devices and languages `snapshot` should generate for a project on each run.


I'll configure my Snapfile for several iPhones…
```ruby
devices([
"iPhone 8 Plus", 
"iPhone SE", 
"iPhone Xs", 
"iPhone Xs Max"
]) 
```
And even though our sample app isn't internationalized or localized, I'll select a couple languages so you can see how nicely fastlane handles multiple app languages
```ruby
languages([
  "en-US",
  "de-DE",
])
```
Last, I'll select our new scheme:
```ruby
scheme "Fastlane Snapshots"
```


## Command line test
Now that everything's set up, let's take things for a spin in the command line.
```ruby
fastlane snapshot
```
As `snapshot` starts chugging, don't be surprised to hear your mac’s fans kick in. `snapshot` automatically takes advantage of modern Xcode's ability to run multiple simultaneous simulators. 


When `snapshot` finishes, it gives a clean visual summary in Terminal. 
<!-- Show Summary in Browser -->
By default, it also generates and opens a great HTML document showing every snapshot generated, for every device, for every language.
<!-- Show /fastlane/screenshots -->
Finally, back in Finder I can see that my newly-created images are cleanly stored in a `screenshots` folder. This is nicely organized by each project language, then namespaced by device and file name. The auto-generated html file lives in this directory as well. 


## Wrapping Up
OK. That's our review of `snapshot`. As you can see, because it uses a different set of tools to do its heavy lifting, setup is more involved than elsewhere in `fastlane`. Even so, once you've done it a time or two, the process is straightforward and quick. And with the preliminaries checked off, snapshot is so smooth that it's easy to forget that it's any different from the rest of the `fastlane` family of actions. That's no small feat of engineering or user experience!


# Conclusion
In the next episode, it'll be your turn to call "lights, camera, action" as you add `snapshot` to your `release` lane. See you there…

[1]:	https://www.raywenderlich.com/3530-testing-in-ios