# Introduction
Now that we've covered the big picture of screenshot automation, it's time to dive into the details of how to set up and use fastlane `snapshot` to make this happen.
# Lecture
`snapshot`'s home, as you'll now expect, is at [https://docs.fastlane.tools/actions/snapshot/#snapshot][1], and generally follows the standard command line and lane conventions you're now familiar with, so things like `fastlane actions snapshot` work exactly as you'll expect. And once again, you can run this as an ad hoc action in the command line, or within lanes.
`snapshot` leverages a different set of under the hood tools than other `fastlane` actions, so setting it up is a bit different than what you've seen so far. Here's how you set this up for a project:
- Create a dedicated UI Test Target for making snapshots
- Run `snapshot init` 
- Add the generated ./SnapshotHelper.swift file to your Test target 
- Record a UI test to step through each screen to be snapped.
- Add code snippets in the test so `snapshot` can take its screenshots. 
2 quick notes about this:
- First, this is more involved than the no setup bliss we've seen for previous actions. But in the big picture, I assure you: the small investment you'll make in these steps will pay you back… big time.
- Second, If you're new to iOS UI Testing or would like a refresher, a great starting point is our [Testing in iOS][2] video course, and in particular its "UI Testing" section. That said, in a moment I'll show you how you can simply record the walkthrough steps needed and then simply insert simple code snippets to complete your UI Tests.
# Demo
## Setup
Let's walk through this together:
First, I'll open my Xcode project and create a new Target. I select "iOS **UI** Testing Bundle" (making sure I don't accidentally choose "iOS **Unit** Testing Bundle" by mistake. I'll name this `FastlaneScreenshots` to make its purpose clear. This keeps this target clearly separated from any standard UI Test targets.
Now I run `snapshot init`. This creates a new `Snapfile` where we can put persistent snapshot settings, a skeletal directory structure where our snapshots will be stored, and finally, a new `SnapshotHelper.swift` file we'll use next.
Back in Xcode, I add `SnapshotHelper` to my `FastlaneScreenshots` target. This completes getting our core assets into place.
<!-- Add note about periodic update and options -->
Next, I'll open `FastlaneSnapshots.swift`. I'll clear out the template code, and update setUp(). Then I'll create a new method named `testMakeSnapshots()`, focus inside the method. I'll make sure a Simulator device is selected then choose "Record".
My goal now is to navigate one by one to the screens I want snapshots of. In our sample app, I just follow the navigation cues and walk through the 5 screens on my radar, then click the Record button once again to cancel my recording.
Finally, I'll insert the `snapshot` function at each point where I want a snapshot taken. I can use the simplest form of this method, and all I need to do is add the name I'd like each generated snapshot file to have. I'll use a simple "##-Name" format here.
## Snapfile
That completes basic setup. Before wrapping this up, let's take a quick look at the Snapfile generated when you ran `snapshot init`. 
You've seen several previous examples of similar Ruby configuration files in earlier episodes. Once again, with snapshot, fastlane thoughtfully gives you the same hierarchy of options: using options command line options, setting parameters within lanes, or using a configuration file. In this case, it's recommended that you favor the Snapfile for setting configurations, since settings are likely to persist for some time.
The Snapfile itself is once again a Ruby file, and it comes with several starter configurations commented out. Any parameter you can pass in a lane can be used here — the syntax is the same. I'm going to comment out the call to devices() and pass an array solely of a single device (I'm doing this so we can quickly see the effects of this, and because I want to give you a short and sweet sample right now). 
I' my file then run `fastfile snapshot`. Fastlane starts doing its thing. While that's happening, note that by default, `snapshot` takes advantage of Xcode 9 and later's ability to run multiple simultaneous simulators, to deliver your snapshots as quickly as your mac will allow.
OK… we're done, and you can see that snapshot gives me a nice summary of what it's done. This is simple for now, but can rapidly grow in complexity.
I can see my snapshot files in Finder. These are stored inside a single language file (had I specified more languages, each would parallel this. I selected iPhone 8 only, and you can see that each file contains the device name followed by the name I specified in each `snapshot()` function in my UI Test. Had I specified more devices, a parallel set of snapshots for each device would appear here — and again for each language.
Finally, note that snapshot produces a great HTML document showing every snapshot generated, for every device, for every language. 
## Wrapping Up
Let's end by reviewing a few nice extras `snapshot` offers in the command line and lanes:
If I want `snapshot` to stop immediately if it encounters a problem, I can choose:
```bash
fastlane snapshot --stop_after_first_error
```
Because `snapshot` relies on Xcode's simulators and odd issues can sometimes crop up with these, it includes a nice option to delete and recreate all your simulators, which can be a great debugging tool if you encounter odd behavior:
```bash
fastlane snapshot reset_simulators
```
As usual, you get lots of options, which you can explore in the usual documentation:
```bash
fastlane snapshot --scheme "myScheme" --configuration "Release"  --sdk "iphonesimulator"
```
Again, all these options, and many more, can be used either here, in lanes, and in your Snapfile.
# Conclusion
That wraps up our review of `snapshot`. In the next episode, it'll be your turn to install and configure snapshot yourself. See you there…

[1]:	https://docs.fastlane.tools/actions/snapshot/#snapshot
[2]:	https://www.raywenderlich.com/3530-testing-in-ios