# Introduction
Although TestFlight is a great service, many developers choose to use third party beta testing services. If you're one of them, don't worry… fastlane's got you covered here too.
# Lecture
**[Slide ]** Options
If you choose not to step outside Apple's TestFlight, you have a lot of options. These include long-term options like Crashlytics (now part of Google's Fabric platform) and HockeyApp (now part of Microsoft's Visual Studio App Center). Additionally, several newer options like Tryouts, Deploy Gate, Test Fairy, Appetize — and others — all have compelling offerings. 
**[Slide ]** Actions
If we go to fastlane's `actions` page and choose the `beta` category, you'll see that fastlane has gone out of its way to give us a wide range of options. The pattern here is clear and simple: There's a dedicated action for each supported service — generally with the same name as the targeted service. Integrating one into a lane is as simple as invoking it and setting (the vendor-specific, but generally quite consistent) properties you need.
Let's look at a view of these to get a sense of the basic patterns…
**[Slide ]** Crashlytics
I'll start with the `craashlytics` action. Again, use in the command line and lanes, as well as documentation URL's are all consistent with the patterns you've used to by now. 
```ruby
crashlytics(
  crashlytics_path: "path/to/crashlytics/submit/binary", 
  api_token: "my-token",
  build_secret: "my-secret",
  notes: "my-notes"
)
```

```ruby
crashlytics(
  crashlytics_path: "path/to/crashlytics/submit/binary", 
  api_token: "my-token",
  build_secret: "my-secret",
  notes_path: "path/to/notes",
  ipa_path: "path/to/ipa/file",
  groups: "comma", "separated", "list",
  notifications: false,
  debug: true
)
```
Running the crashlytics action in a lane is clean and straightforward. We invoke the action and enter a vendor-specific property setting the craashlytics path, and then pass an api token and secret specific to our crashlytics account. You can add a lot more fine-grained control over paths, groups, emails, notes, and notifications if you'd like, but this basic form of the command is likely all you really need to upload a new build.
Let's pause here to make 2 new things: 
First, you might wonder why I haven't specified the ad-hoc .ipa file to be uploaded. One nice sugar each of these actions adds is that so long as you're using `gym` to build your archive, you don't need to specify this setting. 
Second, you might wonder if there's a better way to handle notes than to have to manually enter them into a lane, since of course you'd need to update your Fastfile constantly in this case. 
**[Slide ]** Lane Context
Here too, fastlane has our backs. In Advanced\>Lanes, you can learn several ways to add more fine-grained control and features to your lanes. One particularly helpful mechanism worth understanding is `Lane Context`, a shared hash letting different fastlane actions communicate with each other. In our case, the `lane_context[SharedValues::BUILD_NUMBER]` let's us automatically insert our project's current build number. This is set whenever you run the `increment_build_number` action you met in the last episode. 
Also, if you wondered why you don't need to include the .ipa file's path, `lane_context[SharedValues::IPA_OUTPUT_PATH]` has the answer. This is set when you run `gym`.
**[Slide ]** HockeyApp
Let's say that I use HockeyApp instead. In that case, I'd choose the `hockey` action. 
```ruby
hockey(
  api_token: "my-token",
  notes: "Build {lane_context[SharedValues::BUILD_NUMBER]}"
)
```

```ruby
hockey(
  api_token: "my-token",
  notes: "Build #{lane_context[SharedValues::BUILD_NUMBER]}",
  create_update: true,
  public_identifier: "identifier",
  bundle_short_version: "1.0.2",
  bundle_version: "1.0.2.145",
  ipa: "./my.msi",
  bypass_cdn: true
)
```
Invoking the `hockey` action in its basic form is drop-dead simple: All I need to do is specify my Hockey-provided token. I can do a lot more if desired, and again, the help resources are right where you'd expect them.
**[Slide ]** Tryouts
Let's review one more. If `tryouts` is my preferred service, I'd choose the `tryouts` action.
```ruby
tryouts(
  api_token: "my-token",
  app_id: "application-id",
  notes: "Build {lane_context[SharedValues::BUILD_NUMBER]}"
)
```

```ruby
tryouts(
  api_token: "my-token",
  app_id: "application-id",
  notes: "Build {lane_context[SharedValues::BUILD_NUMBER]}",
  build_file: "path/to/ipa/file",
  notify: 0,
  status: 2
)
```
Again, everything follows fastlane's conventions, so there are no big mysteries here. In the simplest form, I supply my Tryout api token and app id, and once again, I can add whatever fine-grained control my chosen service provides.
# Conclusion
fastlane's support for third party testing services is exemplary, and even better, the team's consistency across its different modules shines here especially. The bottom line is that fastlane gives you the tools you need, and you're free to choose the distribution path that work best for you and your team.
In the next episode, it'll be your turn to have fun, as you'll put `pilot` to work in your own increasingly powerful set of lanes. See you there!
