# Intro
Hey, what’s up everybody, this is Brian. Welcome to our videocourse "fastlane for iOS". 
# Lecture
**[ Slide 1 ]** App Store Interactions
A critical part of being a successful iOS developer is working effectively with the Apple Developer Portal and the App Store. We do this in many ways — both explicitly and implicitly — throughout the lives of any app, as we register and code sign, distribute and beta test, and ultimately submit and update our App Store apps.
As much as Apple works hard to make these interactions as smooth as possible, they can still be highly time-consuming, both because they often require point-and-click-intensive interactions, and because things can and do go wrong, and when they do, troubleshooting them can be surprisingly time-consuming. For many iOS developers, pain points like this can be like black clouds on an otherwise sunny horizon. 
**[Slide ]** Fastlane Logo
If this describes you, then fastlane is just what the doctor ordered. fastlane is a suite of command line utilities designed specifically to streamline and automate virtually every aspect of our interactions with the Developer Portal and App Store Connect. 
Fastlane's individual tools are each designed to solve a common app store problem. But better yet, fastlane is designed from the ground up to let you string together sets of actions into scripts called "lanes", which let you multiply the power of individual actions and create complex, workflows tailored to your specific team and project needs. 
**[Slide ]** Zooming Developers
This course is designed specifically to help you improve your real world development  iOS development life. Our focus from start to finish will be to show you the best ways to save time and repetitive tasks (you'll be amazed at just how much time you'll save). Additionally, you'll see how fastlane can also make you a better developer and team player by replacing ad hoc processes with consistent, reliable, and shareable workflows guaranteed to be the same every time you run them.
**[Slide ]** Who, Me?
So who's this course for?
In a word, this course is for every iOS developer who'd like to save time and improve the efficiency and reliability of their Apple Connect and App Store interactions. 
This course will be a little different from most of our iOS Video Courses, in that we'll spend most of our time outside of Xcode. That's because fastlane is a command line tool written in Ruby. 
Because of this, we'll spend a lot of our time in the command line — which will often act as our sandbox — and in a code editor, where you'll build custom lanes throughout the course.
**[Slide ]** 
If you're not especially comfortable working in Terminal or a code editor not named Xcode, don't worry. The same goes for App Store interactions, which can often feel a bit opaque and perplexing, even to seasoned iOS Developer. 
I'll introduce and clearly explain all key concepts at each step. And as usual here at Ray Wenderlich, you'll have plenty of opportunity to get your hands dirty and try everything out for yourself, as we'll have plenty of challenges along the way. 
So whether you're relatively new to iOS development or an old hand, I think you'll come to love how fastlane can streamline and improve your overall app development workflow from start to finish. 
Simply put: Getting comfortable with fastlane is one of the best investments you can make in yourself as an iOS developer. 
# Conclusion
So buckle your seatbelts and get ready for a sweet cruise on the fastlane. We'll kick things off in the next episode with an overview of fastlane and key problems it solves. See you there!