# Intro
In this episode, you'll extend the basic lane you created earlier to include the `cert` and `sigh`.
# Introducing the Challenge
**[Challenge Slide ]**
## Basic Challenge
In your first challenge, you created your first lane. Now you'll create a new lane in your project Fastfile and populate it with `cert` and `sigh`. Here's your mission:
- Create a new iOS lane and name it `:get_dev_certs`
- Inside this, first call `cert` and include parameters and values for user name, team name
- Next, call `sigh`, and again configure it with user name, team name, and `app_identifier` (which is the parameter name for the bundle ID). Also, set 
- Finally, set both actions to use *development*  mode (both default to *distribution* mode, which we won't use until later in the course.
When you're done, run your lane in terminal.
## - Bonus Chalenge
For the intrepid, we also have a bonus challenge:
You might notice that it's redundant to have to inform each action method separately. We're just getting started… imagine doing this over and over and over and… for a chain of many actions. 
Fastlane provides multiple mechanisms for addressing repetitive settings like this. In this case, there's a configuration inside the `fastlane` subdirectory called `Appfile`.  This is another Ruby configuration file like Fastfile itself, but it's job is to contain project-wide settings info, so that you don't have to re-enter it, either in the command line or in your lanes. 
Your advanced challenge is to open this file, view the  documentation file referenced in the boilerplate code, and then add these configuration items:
- `app_identifier`
- `apple_id`
- `teamid`
Now, remove the equivalent parameters from `cert` and `sigh` in your `get_dev_certs` lanes, since you won't need them any more. And finally, run your lane in Terminal again.
OK, you have your mission. Pause the video now and give this a try. If you get stuck, don't worry… we'll review everything in a moment.
# Pause for Challenge
# Demo: Challenge Answers
How'd that go? Let's take a look at this together.
## Basic Challenge
I start by opening Fastfile in my code editor, if needed set the syntax to Ruby, and stub out a new `:get_dev_certs` lane.
```ruby
  lane :get_dev_certs do
  end
```
Next, I call cert and specify `username` and `team_name`:
```ruby
  lane :get_dev_certs do
    cert(
      username: "bschick1@mac.com",
      team_name: "Brian Schick"
    )
  end 
```
Remember not to get "male I don't need directions syndrome" hear :). If you're not sure of a parameter name, just consult the action documentation, either in Terminal or in its document page.
Now I call sigh, repeating the same 2 parameters and adding in an `app_identifier`:
```ruby
  lane :get_dev_certs do
    cert(
      username: "bschick1@mac.com",
      team_name: "Brian Schick"
    )
    sigh(
      username: "bschick1@mac.com",
      team_name: "Brian Schick",
      app_identifier: "com.razeware.ChewChewTrain"
    )
  end 
```
Last, I add a `development` parameter and set it to true in both functions 
```ruby
  lane :get_dev_certs do
    cert(
      username: "bschick1@mac.com",
      team_name: "Brian Schick",
      development: true
    )
    sigh(
      username: "bschick1@mac.com",
      team_name: "Brian Schick",
      app_identifier: "com.razeware.ChewChewTrain",
      development: true
    )
  end 
```
After saving my changes, I'll take my new lane for a spin. 
```ruby
fastlane get_dev_certs
```
Sweet! My lane does a big chunk of work for me with just that one command. We're still laying down the basics, but I think you can start to get a sense of how helpful this kind of automation can be. 
Before we move on to the advance challenge… one last reminder: I swear I won't keep nagging you after this, but whenever we do this kind of a review, if you've had any issues getting to this point, please update your lane, pause the video, and give this a try yourself. 
## Advanced Challenge
OK, on to our advanced challenge. I locate the `Appfile` inside the `fastfile` directory and open it in my code editor, again ensuring syntax is set to Ruby, then open the documentation page included in the helpful boilerplate text.
Scanning the documentation, I can see the 3 elements I need just waiting for me. Sweet! I'll just grab these remove all the boilerplate text and pop them into my Appfile. That's all I need to do here.
```ruby
app_identifier "com.razeware.ChewChewTrain"
apple_id "bschick1@mac.com"
team_id "3YBJVXRAQH"

# https://docs.fastlane.tools/advanced/#appfile
```
Back in my `Fastfile`,  I'll clear out the username, team_name, and app_identifier params, then close things up:
```ruby
lane :get_dev_certs do
  cert(development: true)
  sigh(development: true)
end 
```
Ahh… much nicer. By the way, a Rubyist would likely also drop a function's parentheses when a function contains either zero or one parameter, like this:
```ruby
  lane :get_dev_certs do
    cert development: true
    sigh development: true
  end 
```
You'll see both forms in fastlane samples in the wild. I'll generally include the params, as it looks more natural to my Swift-trained eyes.
Once again I'll run my lane in Terminal… and… I promised not to keep nagging you, but… you know…
Thanks to Appfile, I now get identical functionality, and my lanes read much more cleanly.
# Conclusion
Nice work! You've now completed your first 2 Fastfile lanes, and they're doing non-trivial things for you. And hopefully, you're also seeing that fastlane's Ruby syntax isn't hard to get up to speed on.
In the next episode, we'll wrap up this episode. See you there…