# Introduction
The first advanced topic we'll cover is how to integrate git directly into your `fastlane` workflows. `fastlane` has fantastic support for git, and it makes all the sense in the world to add direct integration to your automation workflows. Let's take a look.
# Lecture
**[Slide 1]** 
It goes without saying that virtually all modern team workflows are centered around version control, to the point that it’s hard to imagine doing any serious work without it. And if you use git for version control, it't not only a really good idea to integrate git directly into your `fastlane` processes, but it'd actually be a pretty big step in the wrong direction *not* to do this. 
`fastlane` has outstanding git support. While most other actions you've seen have been 1:1 with their domains (`scan` for tests, `gym` for builds, etc), `fastlane's` git tools are atomic, and for this reason, there are lots of them. 
By the way, although these actions can be run in the command line, we'll focus solely on their use in lanes here.
OK, let's take a closer look:
**[Slide 2]** 
`fastlane` offers a deep array of git actions. Here are some of the most important:
**[Slide 3]** 
These actions are designed to check git status before our lanes make changes. They check, first, that our local repo doesn't have any uncommitted changes that could break things downstream in our lanes, and second, that we're on the desired branch before we commit anything. You'll typically use these near the beginning of your lanes.
**[Slide 4]** 
These are workhorse actions. Both give you a lot of fine-tuned control via options.
**[Slide 5]**
This action creates a special "Version Bump" commit. It's commonly used right after runing`increment_build_number`. 
**[Slide 6]** 
You may find it useful to add tags to your automated git integrations. `add_git_tag` is versatile, and allows you to thread your tags by groupings. Remember that we need to push our tags.
**[Slide 7]** 
This command pushes local commits to the remote repository. Again, this offers several useful options. By default, tags are also pushed.
**[Slide 8]** 
There are lots more git actions. But I'll end this flyover with a shout out to an action that's *not* officially part of fastlane's suite of git actions:  The diminutive and easily-overlooked `shell` action: 
If you ever encounter an edge case where you need to do something not covered by all fastlane's powerful git actions, you can simply use this all-purpose action to drop into the shell and do whatever you need directly. 
For this same reason, the `shell` action is extremely useful throughout `fastlane`: Being able to drop into the shell is can be a great way to address edge cases you may encounter. 


# Demo
<!-- Start showing the git repo in browser -->
I've set things up by checking our project into git and creating a remote repo with  staging and master branches.
Now I'll update our lane `build_appstore` to incorporate git:
<!-- Switch to Fastlane in code editor -->
First I'll set up the git actions I need to happen before the main build process. 
```ruby
 lane :build_appstore do
    sync_all_appstore
…
	ensure_git_status_clean
    ensure_bit_branch(branch: "staging")
	git_pull
```
I first ensure that I don't have any uncommitted changes and that I'm on the right branch. Then I add a git pull to make sure I've incorporated any team changes before building. 
I'll comment out the body of this lane for a moment, save my changes, and give things a try.


```ruby
fastlane build_appstore
```
Oops... I'm on the wrong branch. I'll quickly fix this and then try my lane again
```ruby
git checkout staging
fastlane build_appstore
```
Great - our preliminary git checks are working nicely.


Back in my code editor, I'll uncomment things and focus on git actions I want after the build process has completed.
I'll add a version bump commit, 
assign it a tag,
 and push it to the remote.
```ruby
  lane :build_appstore do
    ensure_git_status_clean
    ensure_git_branch(branch: "staging")
    git_pull
    sync_signing_assets(type: "appstore")
	increment_build_number
    gym(
      output_directory: "build_AppStore",
      build_method: "app-store"
    )

	…

    commit_version_bump(
      force: true,
      message: "Version bumped by fastlane"
    )
    add_git_tag(
      grouping: "fastlane",
      build_number: lane_context[SharedValues::BUILD_NUMBER]
    )
    push_to_git_remote

  end
```
Once again, I'll save my changes and run the complete lane


<!-- show repo in browser -->
Looks like everything worked perfectly. I'll take a look at the repo to confirm, and sure enough… my bump commit is there with the commit message and tag I assigned. Sweet!



# Conclusion
**[Slide 9]** 
Fastlane's git integration can be a game changer. It's straightforward to set up, but packed with options ready to help you meet any specific needs you or your team might have. 
Personally, I find it hard to imagine why you *wouldn't* use it if you're using `fastlane` for other workflows. It will really multiply the value of everything you do with fastlane, and move you much further down the path towards continuous delivery.
In the next episode, you'll see how you can also include automated unit tests directly into your `fastlane` workflows. See you there!