# Intro
We've come to the end of our first section. You've done quite a bit so far:
# Lecture
**[Slide 1]** Y
Throughout this section, you've laid down the groundwork for a solid understanding of fastlane.
<!-- Editor: Please click slides to sync bullet points. -->
- You've installed and initialized fastlane and its upstream dependencies — the Xcode command line tools, Ruby, HomeBrew, and Git.
- You also installed fastlane in our sample project and seen the core components that get added.
- You learned about fastlane actions, how to find and understanding their documentation, and how to recognize and leverage consistent design patterns fastlane consistency uses.
- You've seen how to use fastlane actions in both the command line, and in lanes, and what the best uses are for each.
- And begun developing your own set of lanes, which you'll continue growing throughout this course.
In short, you've laid down a solid foundation for everything that's to come. And although foundations are rarely the most exciting parts of any structure, I think you've caught a couple early glimpses of how fastlane can accelerate many parts of your everyday development life. And with the foundations now in place, you'll soon see a lot more of this. 
# Conclusion
**[Slide 2]** 
In the next section, we'll continue focusing on the Development phase of an iOS project. And we'll take off the training wheels and discover to fastlane's revolutionary, best-in-class tools for team-based code signing management. We'll also expand our understanding of fastlane, as you'll learn more refined approaches to several core tasks.
I'll see you there!