# Intro
Hey, what’s up everybody, this is Brian. Welcome to our video course "fastlane for iOS". 
# Lecture
**[ Slide 1]**
An essential part of being a successful iOS developer is working effectively with the Apple Developer Portal and App Store Connect. We do this in many ways — both explicitly and implicitly — over the course of bringing an iOS app to the App Store, as we register and code sign, distribute and beta test, and ultimately submit and continue to update our apps.
As hard as Apple works to smooth these interactions, they can be highly time-consuming, both because they often require point-and-click-intensive interactions, and because several things can and do go wrong. And when they do, troubleshooting and fixing problems can be frustrating and time-consuming. 
**[Slide 2]**
If this sounds familiar, `fastlane` may be just what the doctor ordered. `fastlane` is a suite of command line utilities designed specifically to streamline and automate virtually every aspect of our interactions with the Developer Portal, App Store Connect, and much more.
Each of `fastlane's` individual tools is designed to solve a common app store problem. Better yet, fastlane as a whole is designed from the ground up to let you join together sets of actions into scripts called "lanes". Lanes multiply the power of individual actions and let you create powerful, complete workflows tailored to your specific preferences and needs. 
**[Slide 3]**
This course is designed to help you improve your real world iOS development life. Its focus will be to show you the best ways to save time and civilize repetitive manual tasks. Additionally, you'll see how `fastlane` can also make you a better developer and team player by replacing ad hoc manual processes with consistent, reliable and `shareable` workflows you can count on to be the same every time you or your teammates run them.
**[Slide 4]**
So who's this course for?
In a word, this course is for every iOS developer who'd like to save time and effort, and at the same time improve the efficiency and reliability of their iOS workflows. 
**[Slide 5]** 
This course will be a little different from most of our iOS Video Courses, in that we'll spend most of our time outside of Xcode. That's because `fastlane` is a command line tool. 
Because of this, we'll spend a lot of our time in the command line — which will often act as our sandbox — and in a code editor, where you'll build custom lanes throughout the course.
**[Slide 6]** 
If you're not completely comfortable working in Terminal or a code editor not named Xcode, don't worry. The same goes for App Store Connect and Developer Portal interactions, which can often feel a bit opaque and perplexing to all of us. 
I'll clearly explain key concepts at each step. And as usual here at raywenderlich.com, we'll have plenty of challenges along the way, so you'll have ample opportunity to get your hands dirty and get comfortable using fastlane yourself. 
Whether you're relatively new to iOS development or you're an old hand, I think you'll come to love how `fastlane` can streamline and improve your overall app development workflow from start to finish. 
# Conclusion
**[Slide 7]** 
So welcome aboard, and get ready for a swift cruise on the `fastlane`. We'll kick things off in the next episode with an overview of `fastlane` and the key problems it solves. See you there!