# Intro
In the last two episodes,  you've learned about team-based code signing and fastlane `match`. In this episode, it's your turn to put match to use by adding a new custom team development lane.
# Introducing the Challenge

<!-- 

Maybe explicitly highlight that this challenge is as much about getting comfortable pecking through fastlane's documentation to find key information?

 -->

In Episode 6, you created your first custom lane in your project's Fastfile. This lane, named "development", used cert and sigh based on the conventional approach to individual-based code signing. Now you'll create a second lane that leverages match to integrate team-based assets into your project. 
Your specific challenge is to:
- Add a new lane named "team-development"
- Inside your lane, start by invoking the `register_devices` action to register your iOS devices for `provisioning`. Supply this action with an inline list of your own iOS devices.
- Then add a second action invoking match to do the heavy lifting of creating, encrypted, and storing new team signing assets in your git repo. Configure match for development.
 **[Slide ]** Rough form of lane
You may find this involves a bit of sleuthing. You saw a rough outline of  of a match-based lane using both these actions in the last episode. B I intentionally avoided showing your the syntax so you could work this out for yourself. I did this because I'm evil. :]
Seriously, I did this because with fastlane — as with iOS development generally — it pays big dividends to be comfortable with the documentation and know where to look when you need more info. Here's some starting points in your quest:
- In Terminal, you can run `fastlane actions <action_name>` to get more info on any command. Remember that this often includes additional links to fastlane information.
- Fastlane's online documentation lives at [https://docs.fastlane.tools.][1]. This is often a good place to start. 
- We've also seen that each action has a dedicated documentation page at [https://docs.fastlane.tools/actions/][2]
- Ultimately, there's a documentation page for each action, for example, at [https://docs.fastlane.tools/actions/match/][3] or [https://docs.fastlane.tools/actions/register\_devices/][4]
Remember that you're looking for how to use `match` and `register_devices` within lanes, rather than in the CLI. 
For the adventurous, here's an advanced challenge:
- Create another lane and name it `team_dev_with_device_file`. Inside this, use the same 2 steps as in our main challenge, but this time, create a separate text file and place it inside your fastlane directory. Then reference this file in your call to `register_devices`.
<!-- Provide info on getting UDID's  -->
OK. Pause the video now and give the challenge a try. If you get stuck, don't worry… we'll make sure everything's nice and clear when you resume.
# Pause for Challenge
# Demo: Challenge Answers
Welcome back! Let's take a look at this…
To start, let's quickly review what your new lane should look like:
```ruby
lane :team_development do
# register iOS devices
# run match
end
```
Nothing new here. But now the fun starts…
If you tried using `fastlane actions match` in Terminal, you likely found that while it contains lots of helpful info about command line use, it doesn't help you directly with in-lane usage. However, it does contain a helpful pointer to the match action's documentation page at [https://docs.fastlane.tools/actions/match/][5]. If you started with either fastlane's home documentation or its list of actions, you likely ended up at this same match documentation page as well.
The match action's documentation is deep. We're looking for how to use match inside a lane, and it might not be obvious at first where to find this. The bits we're looking for begin at the section entitled "fastlane". This unfortunately doesn't jump out, and if you missed it, don't feel bad… that's why we're reviewing this. :]
Once we've found this, we can quickly zero in. Let's take care of our call to match first, since we can see this right away. We'll simply use the development example: 
```ruby
lane :team_development do
# register iOS devices
match(type: "development")
end
```
On to registering our iOS devices. First, we need to get the UDID's of our devices.
<!-- Complete instructions on getting UDID's -->
The "Registering new devices" section gives an example of a lane pretty similar to ours, and we can at least see the basic form of the `register_devices` action. but there's nothing here about that textile referenced, nor can we know if there are additional options.
What if we go to the documentation page for `register_devices`? Ah… this is better. There are 4 examples of running this action. It'd be nice if the documentation told us explicitly that these are in-lane examples, but you can likely tell this based on their syntax. Our main challenge is to provide an inline listing of devices, which corresponds to the first example. Plugging this in, our lane looks like this:
```ruby
lane :team_development do
register_devices(
  devices: {
    "Luka iPhone 6" => "1234567890123456789012345678901234567890",
    "Felix iPad Air 2" => "abcdefghijklmnopqrstvuwxyzabcdefghijklmn"
  }
)
match(type: "development")
end
```
Note that the device list here is a Ruby hash. It's similar to a Swift dictionary, but uses fat arrows to delimited name:value pairs.
Now let's tackle the advanced challenge, which was to place our list of iOS devices in a separate text file. The second example shows us how to do this in our lane file. The commend in this example references a "standard UDID export .txt file". To see what this is, we download the examples at the referenced URL. Bringing this up in my text editor, I can see that this is a simple tab-delimited file.

 I'll convert my file to this format…

I'll save it as "devices.txt" and place it within my fastfile directory. Now I'll update my lane to reference this, making sure I include the fastlane subdirectory correctly. 
Finally, I'll create a new lane for this like this:
```ruby
lane :team_dev_with_device_file do
register_devices(
  devices_file: "./fastlane/devices.txt"
)
match(type: "development")
end
```

Finally, let's run our lanes.
<!-- Show results, but keep it short and sweet -->

# Conclusion
Nice work! You've just brought our last 3 episodes about team code signing full circle, and put `match` and `register_devices` to use in your own lanes.
Just as importantly, you've gotten a good taste of how to find more information about fastlane actions in the real world. Just as with the rest of your iOS development career, knowing what to do when you're facing the unknown is a vital skill to have. As you've seen, you might have to do a bit of digging, but fastlane's documentation has you covered.
In the next episode, we'll quickly wrap up everything we've learned in this section. See you there…

[1]:	https://docs.fastlane.tools
[2]:	https://docs.fastlane.tools/actions/
[3]:	https://docs.fastlane.tools/actions/match/
[4]:	https://docs.fastlane.tools/actions/register_devices/
[5]:	https://docs.fastlane.tools/actions/match/