# Introduction
As lanes do more and more, team communication increases proportionally in importance. And like the other tasks we're reviewing in this section, we really need this to happen automatically and dependably — every time a core build process runs.
**[Slide 1]** 
And, of course, `fastlane` has our backs here too. In this episode, I'll show you how to integrate Slack messaging directly into your lanes.
## Lecture
**[Slide 2]** 
Once again, we'll integrate our lanes with Slack via a custom action whose name even Captain Obvious can correctly guess: `slack`. 
The action follows standard conventions, with the caveat that it's available only in lanes. This makes perfect sense, as we'll only want to invoke Slack as part of consistent, automated processes.
## Web Hook Setup
**[Slide 3]** 
The key to using the `slack` action is to provide it with a Slack-supplied web hook. 
**[Slide 4]**
If you need to do this, Slack's "Incoming Webhooks" page is a good place to get started. 
**[Slide 5]** 
Following the steps on this page, you create a Slack app. I've called mine "Fastlane Notifications".
**[Slide 6]**
From here, you just need to create Active Incoming Webhooks, create a new Webhook and link it to a Slack channel. It's a nice idea to create a private "Automation" or "Builds" channel , so your `fastlane` notifications will have their own channel, and no one can accidentally post to this channel. 
You'll now have the custom Webhook URL fastlane's `slack` action needs. 
# Demo
## Lane Use
Once you have your webhook, lane use is clean and straightforward. 
I've stored my Slack webhook in a `slack_hook` variable at the top of my file. Now I can easily send a simple notification with:
```ruby
  lane :ping_slack do
    slack(
      message: "Hello from fastlane!",
      slack_url: slack_hook
    )
  end
```
I'll call my lane:
```ruby
fastlane ping_slack
```
And automagically, a detailed message appears in Slack, with my message and a 
<!-- Show this in the browser -->
As you can see, a good deal of git-centric information is included by default. This is a sensible default, since Slack notifications are typically sent after a build and git commit process.
But again, you can easily customize these defaults. `default_payloads` lets you adjust this default info. And you can add any custom properties you'd like by using the `payload` property, which takes a Ruby name|value hash.
As an example, I'll update my lane to turn off all default payloads and include a custom one:
```ruby
  lane :ping_slack do
    slack(
      message: "Guten Tag von fastlane!",
      slack_url: slack_hook,
      default_payloads: [],
      payload: {"Cheese" => "Is quite tasty"}
    )
  end
```
And now when I run my lane again
```ruby
fastlane ping_slack
```
I get a completely customized response — helpfully informing my teammates that cheese is indeed tasty. Team productivity soars!
You can do much deeper customizations as needed. You can pass custom icons, display a red alert band by setting `success` to `false`, and much more. 
And, of course, instead of hard coding message, you can pass a dynamic message instead. I'll add a slack message to our `build_appstore` lane to show this:
```ruby
lane :build_appstore do
    sync_all_appstore
    ensure_git_status_clean
    ensure_bit_branch(branch: "staging")
    git_pull
    scan
    lint
    gym(
      scheme: "ChewChewTrain",
      output_directory: "build_AppStore",
      export_method: "app-store"
    )
    increment_build_number
    commit_version_bump(
      force: true,
      message: "Version bumped by fastlane"
    )
    add_git_tag(grouping: "fastlane")
    push_to_git_remote

    v = lane_context[SharedValues::VERSION_NUMBER]
    b = lane_context[SharedValues::BUILD_NUMBER]
    d = sh "date -u"
    slack(
      payload: {"FASTLANE PRODUCTION — #{v}(#{b})" => d},
      slack_url: slack_hook
    )  end
```
I'll run this lane…
<!-- Run action and **seriouesly** fast forward :] -->
…and when it completes, everyone on my team now gets a great Slack notification. They can see everything they need to know at a quick glance. 
I took advantage both of fastlane's `lane_context` hash and its shell capabilities to quickly grab dynamic version and build info and a UTC timestamp. Also, I wrapped my info in a custom `payload` instead of a `message` simply because I wanted it stand out in bold text. 
# Interlude
## Factoring
One last thing… if you find yourself wanting to leverage Slack notifications in multiple lanes, you'll likely want to create a private lane to encapsulate the internals of this. One possibility might be to add something like this:
**[Slide ]** Private Slack lane shown inline below for now
```ruby
  private_lane :send_slack do |options|
    msg = options[:message] || ""
    ver = options[:version] || ""
    bld = options[:build]   || ""
    pay = options[:payload] || {}
    suc = options[:success] != false
    dat = sh "date -u"

    if bld.empty?
      slack(
        message: msg,
        payload: pay,
        default_payloads: [],
        success: suc,
        slack_url: slack_hook
      )
    elsif pay.empty? && suc
      slack(
        payload: {"FASTLANE PRODUCTION — #{ver}(#{bld})" => dat},
        slack_url: slack_hook
      )
    else
      slack(
        message: msg,
        payload: pay,
        success: suc,
        slack_url: slack_hook
      )
    end
  end
```
This lane is private, so it can't be incorrectly called by an ad hoc command line action. And it uses options so you can pass your own parameters — in this case: a dynamic version, build, message, and payload. The lane then extracts the options passed, and then uses simple logic to determine if git info should be suppressed or shown, and whether it should synthesize a bold header or pass supplied parameters through. 
With this simple example in place, you could then create an impromptu Slack notification from any lane with: \<points to slide\>:
```ruby
send_slack message: "Halloo from some lane"
```
Flag an error, using \<points to slide\>:
```ruby
send_slack(message: "Ruh roh...", success: false)
```
or pass a build / git process notification like this \<points to slide\>:
```ruby
send_slack(
  version: lane_context[SharedValues::VERSION_NUMBER],
  build: lane_context[SharedValues::BUILD_NUMBER]
)
```
**[Slide ]** Show Slack notifications for each case
This hides the implementation details from my other lanes, and makes it easy to pass contextual information that reads cleanly to my teammates. 
## Conclusion
**[Slide 7]** 
As you can see, once you've done the basic Slack webhook setup, adding Slack notifications is simple. If you work in a team environment, adding this kind of team-wide notification to your automation processes makes lot of sense, and it really helps  keep everybody on your team include and on the same page.
In the next section, we'll see how you can create your own fastlane actions and plugins. See you there!
