# Introduction
In this episode, you'll put `precheck` to use in your own lanes. 
# Introducing the Challenge
Your challenge is nice and simple: 
- Create a new `release` lane in your `Fastfile`.
- Inside it, call `precheck`. 
- Run your lane and evaluate its effectiveness.
Once you've done this, your advanced challenge is to:
- Create a new `Precheckfile` using ``precheck's` `init`` command
- Set your App ID, App Store User Name, and if needed, your Team Name
- Add a check for the custom words "thunderbolt", "lighting", and "frightening" (puppies using our app often don't like these). Give this a level of `:warn`, since this won't cause any App Store rejections.
- Once again, run your lane and compare the differences this time.
That's your assignment. As usual, please pause the video and give this your best shot. I'll see you when you're done.
# Pause for Challenge


# Demo: Challenge Answers
## Basic Challenge
Welcome back. Let's take a look at this:
I open `Fastfile` and add a new `release` lane. Inside it, I stub out a call to `precheck`, then add the specified message beneath it:
```ruby
  lane :release do
    precheck
    UI.success "Still running..."
  end
```
<!-- Switch to Terminal -->
Now I'll run my lane (I know, it's painfully simple so far). It works, but the several prompts aren't pleasant, and they wouldn’t be acceptable in production. 


## Advanced Challenge
Our advanced challenge fixes these issues. 
I run `fastlane precheck init` in the command line to create a template `Precheckfile` in my project `fastlane` folder, and open this in my code editor.
I clear out the boilerplate stuff I don't need. Then I add my App ID, name and team name to quiet the prompts.
Last, I uncomment the `custom_text` boilerplate and set this to my list of scary doggie words, setting the error level to `:warn`. 
<!-- "thunderbolt", "lighting", and "frightening" -->
As usual, if you hit any snags along the way, please pause now and update your files before continuing.
# Pause


# Resume
I'lI save my changes and run my lane again. 
```ruby
fastlane release
```
As expected, I'm no longer prompted, and I can see my list of scary words being tested as well.


However, I still have errors, so let's fix those before we go. 
I've logged into App Store Connect and selected my app. Precheck has alerted me that, first, I'm missing a copyright date
<!-- find and enter this -->
And second, that I have missing URL's
<!-- scroll up and enter Support and Marketing URL's -->
Great. I'll save my changes…
<!-- Return to command line -->
And then rerun my lane.
```ruby
fastlane release
```
This time, everything's green. It's party time.
Take a moment to make these changes on App Store Connect yourself and run your release lane once more.
# Pause
# Resume
# Conclusion
This simple challenge lays down the foundations of the Release phase tools — and especially, the `release` lane — you'll build throughout this section. 
Simple as this is, this first step can really add to your peace of mind. In practice, it's a nice idea to run `precheck` periodically as you're building out your app, so you'll know that you're doing everything you can to make sure your app will pass review with flying colors. And as you near time to actually submit your app for release, knowing these checks are in place — and must pass for your lane to get off the runway — is a great insurance policy against App Store Rejection Syndrome®.
In the next episode, we'll move on to a perennial developer favorite: creating and submitting the oodles of screenshots required to submit an app to the App Store. See you there!