# Introduction
In this episode, it's your turn to integrate `snapshot` directly into your sample project.  
# Introducing the Challenge
## Basic Challenge
Your challenge is to set up `snapshot` in our sample project:
- In Xcode, add a  target and scheme to the project. Name both `FastlaneSnapshots`.
- initialize `snapshot` in Terminal
- In Xcode, update your `FastlaneSnapshots.swift` test file so its `setUp()` method calls `setupSnapshot()`. Then create a UI Test method and record a step through of the app's scenes within it.
- Insert method calls inside your UI Test method to generate snapshots of each screen.
Try running `snapshot` in the command line when you're done.
## Advanced Challenge
Your advanced challenge is to customize snapshot. It has 2 parts:
First,  update  `../fastlane/Snapfile` so that it
- Sets devices to iPhone models SE, X,  XS,  XS Max and XR.
- Sets languages to US English and German
- Set the scheme to `FastlaneSnapshots`, and suppress automatic presentation of the html summary page.  
	Second, in `Fastfile` update your `release` lane so that it calls `snapshot` after it runs precheck.
When you're done, run the release lane.
All right! You have your challenges. Feel free to return to the last episode if you'd like a review of the snapshot setup steps. And if you get stuck, remember that we'll review these steps together once you're done. Pause the video now, and have fun! I'll see you when you're done.
# Pause for Challenge
# Demo: Challenge Answers
Welcome back. Let's walk through this together…
## Basic Challenge
In Xcode, I create a new iOS UI Testing Bundle target and call it  `FastlaneSnapshots`. Then I create a new linked Scheme of the same name, bring up its build settings, and ensure "Run" is checked in its Build settings.
I run `snapshot init` in Terminal to create project `snapshot` assets, and then return to Xcode and add the generated `SnapshotHelper.swift` to the `FastlaneSnapshots` target.
Then in  my`FastlaneSnapshots.swift` test file, I clear the boilerplate and configure its `setUp()` method to initialize snapshots:
```swift
    let app = XCUIApplication()
    setupSnapshot(app)
    app.launch()
```
Last, I create `testSnapshot()`, and with my cursor on a blank line within it, start recording and step through my scenes, clicking on a response at the training challenge so I'm presented with a reward. With that done, I insert `snapshot()` where I want the camera to shoot. 
## Trying it out
That's as manually intensive as fastlane gets, and it's easy to miss a step or two. If you had any difficulties, please pause the video now and correct them. 
OK, let's run snapshot:
```swift
fastlane snapshot
```
I'm prompted to select a scheme, since I haven't specified one yet, then `snapshot` gets to work.
When it finishes, a summary web page displays snapshots for the default devices and languages (again, thanks to `fastlane's` sensible defaults). And the files for these are cleanly organized for me in Finder. Nice!
## Advanced Challenge
Now on to the advanced challenge of customizing `snapshot`:
I open `Snapfile`, set its syntax to Ruby, then set up its devices and languages arrays:
```ruby
devices([
  "iPhone SE",
  "iPhone X",
  "iPhone XS",
  "iPhone XS Max",
  "iPhone XR"
])

languages([
  "en-US",
  "de-DE",
])
```
Then I inform snapshot which scheme to use and suppress automatic display of the summary page:
```ruby
scheme "FastlaneSnapshots" 
skip_open_summary true
```
Now I open `Fastfile`, find the `release` lane we previously created, and append a call to `snapshot`:
```ruby
  lane :release do
    precheck
    snapshot
  end
```
I make sure both files are saved and I'm done.
## Trying it Out
Once again, please take a moment to update your files if you hit any snags. When you're done, run:
```bash
fastlane release
```
This time, we're not prompted to select a scheme, and our `release` lane gets to work immediately, first checking for any App Store issues, then assembling all our our screenshots. And since we now specify multiple languages, our screenshots are now organized into separate, named folders for each. 
As requested, our web page so it wasn't displayed. However, it's still available in the `screenshots` directory. I'll open it…
<!-- open screenshots.html in browser -->
…and you can see that this it now shows our screens sorted by language. We can also switch to sorting by screen instead, which lets us view snapshots screen by screen, so we can see per-language differences clearly.
## One last thing
Before we wrap up, I'd like to show you one last thing that might save you headaches. Because fastlane uses Xcode's simulators to generate its snapshots, problems can sneak up with simulators, and when they do, they can be hard to diagnose. One way to prevent these is to force clear them each time.
Similarly, I like to clear out my previous screenshots entirely before I begin creating a new set. That way I can be sure that outdated screenshots can't somehow sneak into my App Store submissions. 
To address both of these issues, you can add these additional settings to your project Snapfile: 
```ruby
stop_after_first_error true
erase_simulator true
clear_previous_screenshots true
reinstall_app true
```
You don't need these settings for this course, but I think you'll find they can be helpful in real world usage.
# Conclusion
OK. That wraps up our snapshot challenge. Congratulations on seeing that through. As you've seen, snapshot does an amazing amount on our behalf. Because of the hoops it has to jump through to be able to automate this process, setup is more involved than with other fastlane actions. But needless to say, that additional work is more than repaid the first time you run it. And it will only get better in the rest of this section.
Speaking of which… in the next episode, I'll show you how to automatically resize, inset in device frames, and even add optional captions with custom fonts and background images to your screenshots. See you there!