# Introduction
Now that we've integrated source control and unit testing into our lanes, a good next step would be to lint our code while we're at it. 
# Lecture
## About Linters
If you're not familiar with code linting, it's a way to sift (or "lint") through a codebase and call out — and optionally auto correct — code that's not formatted to meet a standard. 
**[Slide 1]** 
Especially in team development environments, linting is often an essential tool at ensuring that everyone on the team uses the same coding conventions. This can lead to significant boosts in code quality and productivity. 
With linting, the devil's in the details: a linter enforces a configured set of rules, and if it's too strict, or you or your team haven't vetted these, the linter will just get in your way. Taking the time to tune a linter's rule can make the difference between a tool that smacks you upside the head or gently taps you on the shoulder. 
## SwiftLint
**[Slide 2]**
Fastlane offers built-in support for `SwiftLint`, an open source linter created and  maintained by Realm. SwiftLint's main GitHub page is at [https://github.com/realm/SwiftLint][1]. 
**[Slide 3]** 
`SwiftLint` s rules are documented at [https://github.com/realm/SwiftLint/blob/master/Rules.md][2], with extensive code examples for each. If you implement this yourself, this is a great resource.
**[Slide 4]** 
As usual, we'll integrate this tool into our automated workflows via a dedicated `fastlane` action — in this case, named… you guessed it… `swiftlint`.
# Demo
## Installing SwiftLint
To begin, we need to install SwiftLint. I'll use Homebrew:
```bash
brew install swiflint
```
Next, we'll add a SwiftLint configuration file to our project so that we can customize our rules. Like fastlane and homebrew, SwiftLint is written in Ruby, so its configuration file is written in YAML — a common format for Ruby configuration files. I'll start by creating a new `.swiftlint.yml` file in my project root and telling it which directories to check.
```bash
included:
  - ChewChewTrain
  - ChewChewTrainTests
```
We can now run Swiftlane in the command line:
```bash
swiftlint
```
As you can see, it steps through through my project files and issues several warnings, giving me the file, line number, and relevant rule for each. It's not hugely useful yet, but that's a nice start, and I can customize my linter settings by editing the YAML file any time I want to tailor how SwiftLint functions in my project.
## Fastlane
**[Slide ]** Swiftlint Documentation Page [https://docs.fastlane.tools/actions/swiftlint/#swiftlint][3]
With SwiftLint up and funning, we're ready to plug it into fastlane. Our fastlane action is named simply `swiftlint`. This action can **only** be used in a lane: You can't call it via `fastlane swiftlane` as we've done with most other fastlane actions. This makes sense, given how this action is designed to be used.
I'll add a new lane and configure `swiftlint` by pointing to our project config file and asking it to create a custom report in the same directory where my other fastlane reports live:
```ruby
  lane :lint do
    swiftlint(
      mode: :lint,
      config_file: ".swiftlint.yml",
      output_file: "./html/swiftlintResult.txt",
      ignore_exit_status: false
    )
  end
```
Let's run our new lane:
```ruby
fastlane lint
```
As you can see, we now get much nicer per-file summaries in Terminal, and the per-line details are placed inside my results file if I want them.
Now I'll change `mode` from `:lint` to `:autocorrect`. Note that this is a symbol, not a string.
I rerun my lane in autocorrect mode
```ruby
fastlane lint
```
and you can see my files are being corrected. I'll switch back to lint mode,  since when mode is set to :autocorrect, `swiftlint` doesn't display any uncorrected errors in its results. Now you can see most of my errors have been resolved; the ones remaining are those that couldn't be fixed without human intervention.  
This is a good time to tune our configuration file. Let's say my team has decided we think lines longer than 120 chars are ok.  I'll add an exclusion to `.swiftlint.yml`
```ruby
disabled_rules:
  - line_length
```
Alternately, we could leave the rule enabled and set a length greater than 120 characters:
```ruby
line_length: 150
```
And we can add custom rules if we want to. Again, the point here is to make sure your linter is your wingman, not your dungeon master.
Whether to have your linter warn or go ahead and "fix" your code is a matter of personal and team choice. I'll reset my lane set to :autocorrect, because I'd like to enforce team standards. This will also encourage me to make sure my linter configuration fits my team standards..
By default, `swiftlint` will halt your lane if SwiftLint encounters a serious error and returns a non-zero result. You can control this with the `ignore_exit_status` option.
Our last task is to integrate this into our production lane sets. I'll add this to my build lane:
```ruby
lane :build_appstore__git do
    sync_all_appstore
    ensure_git_status_clean
    ensure_bit_branch(branch: "staging")
    git_pull
    scan
    lint
    gym(
      scheme: "ChewChewTrain",
      output_directory: "build_AppStore",
      build_method: "app-store"
    )
    increment_build_number
    commit_version_bump(
      force: true,
      message: "Version bumped by fastlane"
    )
    add_git_tag(grouping: "fastlane")
    push_to_git_remote
  end
```
It makes sense to lint at the same time I scan my app for potential App Store violations — After I've done a git pull, so I know  I have the latest commits, and before I build. That way, if there are any serious linting issues, my lane will stop before moving on to the build stage.
# Conclusion
**[Slide 5]** 
Integrating linting into your fastlane workflow is easy to do. As you've seen, the main hurdles are agreeing on team standards and integrating these into project configurations, as fastlane integration itself is quite straightforward. And as with unit tests, if you're going to do it at all, it really does make sense to simply build it into your automation pipeline, so you can *know* it happens every time you build your project.
Up next: We'll add automated documentation to our fastlane workflows. See you in the next episode…



[1]:	https://github.com/realm/SwiftLint
[2]:	https://github.com/realm/SwiftLint/blob/master/Rules.md
[3]:	https://docs.fastlane.tools/actions/swiftlint/#swiftlint