
# Introduction
In this episode, you'll meet your first fastlane action. see how it can streamline registering your app, and learn some fastlane fundamentals. 
# Lecture
We'll be exploring the first part of an app's lifecycle — registering, provisioning, and developing an app — throughout the first 2 sections of this course. To get the ball rolling, we'll start with one of the most basic elements of this: registering an app with App Store connect. 
## Registration Basics
**[Slide ]** App Registration Purpose
To quickly review, registering an app is a crucial first step, because it:
- Ensures that your app's bundle ID is unique throughout Apple's ecosystems.
- Lets you obtain development provisioning profiles so your in-development app can run on provisioned devices.
**[Slide ]** Registering an app on the Developer Portal
Conventionally, you register an app via Apple's Developer Portal, and there's nothing wrong with this process per se. Nonetheless, this will give us a first glimpse of how we can replace manual processes with automated ones that don't require our intervention to complete.
## Actions in Context
**[Slide ]** Documentation page
The fastlane action we'll use for this task is `produce`. Let's quickly place this in context, starting with the fastlane documentation page. As you saw a bit earlier, there's a lot of helpful information here. But it can also be a bit hard to get an initial foothold. Take a look at the contents on the left-hand side of the page. For our purposes, the single most important link on this page will be "Available Actions", which I'll click now…
**[Slide ]** Actions page
Great. But… what's a fastlane *action*? Simply put, an action is a method that's designed to address a specific issue. For now, all actions we review will be designed the App Store ecosystem. More practically, an action is like a command that does something for you. If your ultimate goal is to create custom fastlane to perform workflows for you, individual actions are like keywords in a sentence. And the actions page is like a dictionary of fastlane's essential verbs. 
**[Slide ]** Scroll through categories
Back on our page, you'll see that actions are organized by category — Code Signing, Building, Testing, and so on. 
**[Slide ]** App Store Connect actions
Our initial `produce` action is part of a set of tools designed to improve App Store Connect interactions. I'll select this now.
## Action Basics
**[Slide ]** [https://docs.fastlane.tools/actions/produce/][1]
This brings us to the main documentation page for the `produce` action. I'll call out several conventions:
- First, we're presented with the action name and its logo.
- Many actions also have aliases — here, we're told that produce is an alias for the `create_app_online` action. An alias in this context is similar to a `typealias` in Swift: we can simply use either term interchangeably. You'll see this pattern throughout fastlane. As with type aliases, you're free to use any available term — I'll typically choose the simplest variant.
- **[Slide ]** Usage
- Next, take a look at the Usage section. There's a hidden key to reading these, and that's understanding that fastlane actions can be used in two very different ways:
	- They can be preceded by the keyword `fastlane` and used directly by themselves in the command line (e.g. `fastlane produce	`
	- They can be used as part of a lane that's defined within the project Fastfile, which we glimpsed earlier. 
		In the first case, the action is used as part of a Terminal command and will follow standard command line syntax and rules. In the second case, the action is used within the Fastfile — a Ruby file — and all syntax and rules in this context will naturally be those of Ruby itself.
		This is reflected in the Usage documentation. For any given action, you'll first see how it can be used a la carte in the command line. Following this will be info about using the same action in a lane.
		This dual identity can take some getting used to, and unfortunately, while you're getting up to speed, it's not always crystal clear where the line ends between command line and Fastfile lane documentation. Over time, though, the difference becomes intuitive. Meanwhile, I'll work to call this out as we go along.
- As you can see, `produce` has an extensive set of command line options, and an equally impressive list of lane parameters as well. For now, all that's important is to understand the difference in these 2 contexts, and to remember that every action has a documentation page at docs.fastlane.tools/actions/\<action name\>. 
# Demo
## Basic Produce Usage
Let's get a sampling of what we can do with this action.
In Terminal, I'll make sure I'm in the root directory of my project. then run:
```bash
fastlane produce
```
This is a pattern you'll quickly come to know (maybe even love). Every fastlane command capable of command line use takes the basic form `fastlane <action_name>`.  You might be surprised given how powerful fastlane actions are that you can run any command in this very simple format. This is by design: `fastlane` meticulously chooses "sensible defaults" for its actions, so that while you *can* choose advanced options when you need them, you can generally use a very simple form of the command. It's a great design pattern, and makes working with fastlane quite nice in practice.
The `produce` action focuses on registering an app. Since I didn't specify them in my command, I'm prompted to enter my Apple ID, then to choose a team. Then I'm prompted to enter my Bundle ID, and a friendly name for my app. No coincidentally, these are the same parameters you're prompted to enter when you create an app in Xcode.
Notice that what's reported back to me are the results of conversations `produce` has with the App Store on my behalf. `fastlane` verifies that my information is valid and that my bundle ID is unique, then automatically registers my app as a new app in App Store Connect, reporting back its newly assigned unique ID.
<!-- Pull up Spaceship site -->
By the way, behind the scenes, most fastlane actions leverage a tool known as `spaceship`. If you're interested in seeing what makes fastlane tick, I'd encourage you to check out spaceship's documentation. It's a beautiful and sleek tool that works with no less than 5 different Apple API's, providing the underlying engine powering all fastlane interactions with the vast App Store ecosystem.
<!-- Pull up App Store Connect -->
To confirm our results, I'll open App Store Connect in our browser. Sure enough, our app is newly registered with Apple. Nothing earth-shattering's happened just yet, but it's a nice first glimpse of fastlane's potential.
## Getting more info
As mentioned, each fastlane action has a documentation page. You can also get information about running any action in the command line by running `fastlane <action_name> --help`. For example: 
```bash
fastlane produce --help
```
This works for any fastlane action that can be run in Terminal. (A few actions can only be run in lanes; more on that a bit later).
As an example, if I'd like to not be prompted for my Apple ID, team, and app info I can run:
```bash
fastlane produce \
--username bschick1@mac.com \
--app_identifier com.razeware.ChewChewTrain \
--app_name "Chew Chew Train" \
--team_name "Brian Schick" \
--itc_team_name "Brian Schick"
```
Fastlane has more civilized methods of including this kind of info, but this is a nice start.
By the way, the reason I've included both `team_name` and `itc_team_name` is that under the hood, these 2 values correspond to separate calls `produce` must make, first to the Apple Developer Center and then to App Store Connect. 
One last thing: We can also get command line help on how to use any action within a Fastfile *lane* via `fastlane actions <action_name>`. Here, I'll run:
```bash
fastlane actions produce
```
This gives a nice summary of available lane parameters, and also points us back once again to the action's documentation page. This is another shared pattern for all fastlane actions.
# Conclusion
That wraps up our intro to the basics of app registration with `produce`. In the next episode, it'll be your turn to put `produce` into action in your own lanes. See you there

[1]:	https://docs.fastlane.tools/actions/produce/