# Intro
We've come to the end of our first section.
# Lecture
Throughout this section, you've laid down the groundwork for a solid understanding of fastlane.
- You've installed and initialized fastlane and its upstream dependencies — the Xcode command line tools, Ruby, HomeBrew, and Git.
- You also installed fastlane in our sample project and seen the core components that get added.
- You learned about fastlane actions, how to find and understanding their documentation, and how to recognize and leverage consistent design patterns fastlane consistency uses.
- You've seen how to use fastlane actions in both the command line, and in lanes, and what the best uses are for each.
- And begun developing your own set of lanes, which you'll continue growing throughout this course.
In short, you've laid down a solid foundation for everything that's to come. And although foundations are rarely the most exciting parts of any structure, I think you've caught a couple early glimpses of how fastlane can accelerate many parts of your everyday development life. And with the foundations now in place, you'll soon see a lot more of this. 
# Conclusion
In the next section, we'll continue focusing on the Development phase of an iOS project. But we'll take off the training wheels and move to fastlane's best-in-class tools for team development. We'll also see how fastlane can simplify and streamline another key part of the Development phase: registering extended capabilities and in-app notifications.
I'll see you there!