# Introduction
In this episode, you'll learn about the core structure of a fastlane *lane*, and then you'll roll up your sleeves and build your own first lane, using `produce`. Let's dive right in…
# Lecture
## Introducing the Lane
**[Slide 1]**
In the last episode, you saw how we can invoke a fastlane action directly in the command line. You'll frequently see this form of `fastlane` actions throughout this course, because working with actions like this gives us a convenient sandbox for quickly learning about each action.
But as you know, the heart of fastlane is the *lane.* Lanes tie together individual actions, unlocking and magnifying their implicit power and bringing them together in complete workflows.
Each lane is defined in the project **Fastfile**. 
Because their Ruby syntax may be foreign to you, we'll begin this challenge with a walkthrough of their key conventions. I promise… they're not at all hard to quickly understand…
## A Lane's Anatomy
**[Slide 2]**
Here's a sample Fastfile. Out of the box, it's immediately clear that Ruby is **not** a C-style language — no curly brackets or keywords like `var`, `let`, `func` here.
**[Slide 3]**
But we can immediately recognize a block that runs when the platform is iOS, and that two lanes — named "first" and "second" — are defined here. `platform` and `lane` are Ruby functions. Ruby doesn't require require parentheses for functions when they have zero or one parameters. 
**[Slide 4]**
In place of curly brackets, Ruby use `do` - `end` pairings to denote blocks. Coming from a C-style language, this may look a bit strange, but it's an easy adjustment.
**[Slide 5]**
Ruby Symbols may be the most alien thing here for Swift developers. You can think of symbols as a defined-in-place let constants. You'll see these frequently in fastlane, and in every custom lane declaration.
**[Slide 6]**
Within a given lane, fastlane actions naturally run in the order they appear. Each invocation of an action is another Ruby method call, and you're able to include whatever parameters an action's method supports to further tune its performance.
**[Slide 7]** Comments
Last, inline comments in Ruby are prefaced with a simple hash mark. 
# Introducing the Challenge

With that background under your belt, it's time for you to take the plunge and create your first lane. Here's your first challenge:
- Open `.fastlane/Fastfile` in your code editor and make sure syntax is set to `Ruby`.
- Replace all the `Fastfile's` boilerplate code with this:

**[Slide 8]**

- All your lanes will go within the `platform :ios` block. 

**[Slide 9]**  

Create a new lane within this, and name it `:register_app`.
- Inside this lane, add a single call to `produce`. You don't need to include any parameters at this time.
We'll also have advanced challenges throughout this course, and I strongly encourage you to do them as well. 


Your advanced challenge this time is to:
- include parameters for username, app identifier, app name, and — if you belong to more than one development team — your App Store Connect and Developer Portal team names.
We did this in the command line in the last episode, but your challenge here will be to find and use the Ruby lane parameters. 

By the way, other than the optionality of parentheses we discussed, Ruby function syntax is quite close to Swift's. For example, If I have a Ruby function `foo` that takes params `bar` and `bas`, I can invoke this either as:

**[Slide 10]**  


or:

**[Slide 11]**

As a side note, Ruby allows both single and double-quoted variants. While there are interesting subtleties here, for our purposes in this course, Swift-style double quotes will work nicely.
Please pause the video now and give this a try. If you get stuck, no worries… we'll walk through everything when you're done. See you on the other side…
# Pause for Challenge
# Demo
## Basic Challenge
Welcome back! Let's take a look at this together:
- I start by opening the default Fastfile in my code editor. I need to manually set the syntax to Ruby since the file lacks an extension. In my editor, I'll just click the language affordance and select Ruby. Ah… that's better!
- I remove the boilerplate code, 
- and then I create a new lane and name it `:register_app`. 
- I make sure to make my lane name a Ruby symbol, and I'll follow the Ruby convention of using 2 spaces for each level of indentation.
```ruby
default_platform(:ios)

platform :ios do

  lane :register_app do

  end

end
```
- Last, I'll add a call to `produce`. Note that when I'm calling an action within a lane, I do NOT use the `fastlane` keyword as I do in the command line. This keeps lane syntax lean and mean.
	```ruby
	lane :register_app do
	  produce
	end
	```
	Not too bad, right? Ruby syntax is definitely different from Swift's C-style curly bracket approach, but it's elegant and clean. And like Swift, it minimizes the clutter of many traditional languages and lets you focus directly on the "metal" of your code.


All right. Let's save our lane then switch over the Terminal and go for a quick cruise in our new fastlane:
```ruby
fastlane register_app
```
`fastlane` cruises over to our lane and inside our lane, produce goes to work for us. We're still prompted for our creds, which we'll take care of soon. And notice that since we already registered our app earlier (in the command line), `produce` intelligently recognizes that there's nothing to do. Nice!
If you didn't run your lane previously — or if you had errors — please pause your video and update your code so that it now runs as expected.

## Advanced Challenge
OK. On to your advanced challenge. The main hurdle here was likely honing in on the lane-specific parameters and not accidentally using command line options. The documentation needed is found in the `Parameters` section at the very bottom of `produce`'s documentation. This is yet another shared pattern you'll see repeated across fastlane actions.
I’ll enter the parameters now:
```ruby
  lane :register_app do
    produce(
      username: "bschick1@mac.com",
      app_identifier: "com.razeware.chew",
      app_name: "Chew Chew Train",
      team_name: "Brian Schick",
      itc_team_name: "Brian Schick"
    )
  end
```
One  heads up: The Ruby parameter names here happened to exactly match their command line equivalents. However, be aware that that’s not always the case, and the documentation is your friend here.

OK. I'll save my changes and run my lane once more. 
```ruby
fastlane register_app
```
Nice! No prompts this time, making the results easier to parse too.
Once again, if you haven't done so already, please take a moment to make these changes (obviously replacing my username and team names with your own) and try this out for yourself now, before moving on.

As usual here are Ray Wenderlich, our course's Download materials include bookend sets of **Beginning** and **Ending** folders, containing the state of all our sample project assets — including all the custom fastlane assets you'll be assembling — as they should be at the beginning and end of each episode. If you ever get stuck, feel free to grab one of these. But if you do this, remember that you’ll need to replace my info with yours — as you just did a moment ago.
# Conclusion
Congratulations! You've learned the basics of lane structure and created your first lane. We're not blowing any minds just yet, but this is a nice start you'll build on.
In the next episode, you'll learn how fastlane can automate managing you Development code signing assets. See you there…