# Introduction
This episode brings our `fastlane` for iOS course to a close. 
# Lecture
I hope you've enjoyed meeting and learning about fastlane as much as I have. It's been quite an adventure!
## Where We've Been
**[Slide 1]** 
We began by learning how to set up `fastlane` on a machine and then initialized it for an iOS project. 
**[Slide 2]** 
We then focused on how `fastlane` can improve every phase of iOS development, beginning with the Development phase, through Beta Testing and Distribution, and finally Delivery of your app for sale on the App Store. Throughout this process, we repeatedly saw how `fastlane` does everything it can to make basic usage as simple and trouble-free as possible.
**[Slide 3]** 
But we didn't stop there. In our final section, you met just some of the vast number of ways `fastlane` continues to be your wingman well beyond the App Store ecosystem so your lanes can power continuous integration with git, unit tests, and much more. 
**[Slide 4]** 
Better still, we've seen how fastlane's open and extensible design encourages and supports a broad range of third party plugins, and gives you the option to create your own actions if needed. 
**[Slide 5]** 
If like me, you're not a Rubyist, fastlane's Ruby codebase might have seemed a bit intimidating at first. But we've seen that crafting custom lanes and setting configurations isn't at all difficult. 
**[Slide 6]** 
At the same time, we've also seen that working with `fastlane` is a craft that should be taken seriously and done well. `fastlane` is a powerful and precise environment that worthy of your attention and best efforts.
**[Slide 7]** 
Ultimately, the purpose of the specific topics and exercises throughout this course have been to give you the tools to go beyond the specifics we've covered here. 
Your `fastlane` environment should ultimately be *yours*. 
## Where to Go From Here
**[Slide 8]** 
Our hope is this course will inspired you to go on an adventure in crafting your own ideal automation workflows. 
From here, it's really up to you where you want to go with fastlane. Here's a few resources you may find helpful on your journey:
**[Slide 9]** 
<!-- Editor: Please click the slide to align each course listing with the matching point. -->
If you found yourself wanting to beef up your basic skills with 
- the Command Line,
- Basic Git usage
- Advanced Git techniques, or 
- iOS Testing during this course, I can highly recommend our outstanding video courses for each of these.
**[Slide 10]** 
<!-- Editor: Please click the slide to align each course listing with the matching point. -->
If you'd like to extend your knowledge of Ruby, some approachable and worthwhile resources are:
- ruby-lang.org
- Ruby from Other Languages, and
- Try Ruby's in-browser Ruby REPL.
**[Slide 11]** 
<!-- Editor: Please click the slide to align each course listing with the matching point. -->
As to `fastlane` itself, 
- The best online resource is hiding in plain sight at docs.fastlane.tools. We've used this extensively throughout the course, but there's much more you can learn here, including
- How you join the `fastlane` team and contribute to its codebase,
- How you can take `fastlane` even farther through integrations with other Continuous integration systems, and
- How you use `fastlane` with many other development environments, such as React, Flutter, Android, Xamarin, and more. 
- **[Slide 12]** 
And with that, I'll sign off by wishing you an iOS development life that — thanks to `fastlane` — is less stressful, more productive, and more profitable. Happy trails!