# Introduction
Welcome to the final episode of Section 4.
## Section Review
Throughout this Section, you've implemented a complete workflow for the Release cycle. You've usedfastlane's release tools — `precheck`, `snapshot`, `frameit` and `deliver` — to package and deliver your app metadata and screenshots to the App Store.
You've also implicitly leveraged several fastlane code signing, utility, and build tools — `match`, `increment_build_number`, and `gym` — to create and deliver a code-signed archive with a fresh build number to the app store. And you did all this simply by including the `build_appstore` you'd previously built into your `release` lane. 
This is a great example of how well-designed lanes let you compose your iOS workflows at a higher level
## Fastfile Overview
Zooming out a bit, your Fastfile now contains a set of lanes that cover the 3 key cycles of iOS development we identified at the beginning of this course — from Development, through Beta Testing and Distribution, and now Release. Once again, I hope that feels like a significant achievement. And equally, I hope it's now clear just how flexible all this is, and how readily you can tune the lanes we've created here so that they fit your own team and project needs like a well-tailored glove.
# Conclusion
But, we're not done yet.
In our final section, we'll step outside of the App Store ecosystem and see how fastlane can automate your *entire* iOS development workflow.
As we do this, we'll move beyond simply solving App Store-specific issues, and move towards continuous development and delivery. In many ways, our final section may be the most exciting of this entire course, and can really take everything you've learned so far to the next level. Well, I mean to the *next* next level :). See you there… 