# Introduction
In this episode, you'll learn how to automate your iOS Unit Tests, using the `fastlane` actions `scan`.
# Lecture
## The Case for Test Integration
**[Slide 1]** 
Unit testing is an essential part of iOS development, and Apple's `XCTest` framework makes it straightforward to create and maintain unit tests in our applications. But there's a potential meta weakness in conventional iOS unit testing, and that’s tests are often run ad hoc. And if have to manually remember and choose to test, when push comes to shove it's all too easy for testing to slip between the cracks. 
Now that you're using `fastlane` to automate your build processes, it makes perfect sense to integrate unit testing directly into your core lanes. This way, testing happens every time you build, and no matter which team member does this, they can't forget.
## Introducing Scan
**[Slide 2]** 
`scan` is fastlane's test automation action. It's very easy to use, and very powerful. And it follows the usual `fastlane` conventions you know.
**[Slide 3]**
Under the hood, `scan` uses `xcodebuild` and `xc_pretty`, an open source formatter for `xcodebuild`.  As you've seen earlier in this course, the command line syntax for running `xcodebuild` directly isn't pretty or easy to remember. Here's its code for running unit tests (points to slide). 
**[Slide 4]** 
Running scan, on the other hand, is exactly as simple as you'd expect:


# Demo
<!-- Show test scheme and target in Xcode -->
Let's take a closer look…
Of course, we need unit tests before we can automate them. I've set up a test target and schema. 
<!-- Show unit tests in Xcode -->
By the way, if you're not confident working with iOS unit tests, our [Testing in iOS][1] video course is a great way to polish up your unit and UI test skills. 
I've also set up some simple unit tests on my Model, making the final one intentionally fail.
I'll run them manually to give you a quick look.
<!-- Run in Xcode -->


Now I'll do this in Terminal via raw scan command:
```bash
fastlane scan
```
Fastlane complains that I need to enable my test scheme to run, which isn't the Xcode default. I'll correct that 
<!-- Edit scheme to enable run, and repeat in Terminal -->
and try again.


Since I haven't yet specified a schema, I'm prompted to select one. From there, scan takes over and calls out my failing test (the multiple errors are due to iteration over an array).
I'll correct my failing test in Xcode 
<!-- Switch assertion in Xcode, and repeat in Terminal -->
and run scan again. 

This time, we get the all clear.


## Scanfile
That's a good start, so let's build on that.
You'll likely want to run tests both from the command line and from more formal lanes. So, it makes a lot of sense to have a common configuration file to provide default settings for both the command line and lanes. 
To create this file, run `fastlane scan init`:
```bash
fastlane scan init
```

This creates a `Scanfile` , as usual in our project `fastlane` folder. 
<!-- reveal in Finder, then open in code editor -->
I remove the default content and specify our test scheme, ask `scan` to clean my project before each run, and have it create and open an html report for me after each run. 
```bash
scheme("ChewChewTrainTests")
clean(true)
open_report(true)
```
When I run this again…
```bash
fastlane scan
```


This time, a `test_output` folder is created. It contains 2 assets. First, an html summary report
<!-- show then Quick Look in browser -->
…and second, an XML JUnit report that can be readily integrated with a wide range of tools. Sweet!


## Adding to our Lanes
With this under our belts, I'll add scan to our `Fastfile`. Because I've set up a `Scanfile`, this will be really straightforward. 


I'll add unit testing to the build lanes in our project `Fastfile` now. 
I'll run my tests right before I increment and build. That way, if any tests fail, my project won't get version bumped or built.
```ruby
   lane :build_appstore do
…
    sync_all_appstore
    scan
    increment_build_number
    gym( ... )
  end
```

```ruby
  lane :build_adhoc do
…
    sync_all_adhoc
    scan
    increment_build_number
    gym( ... )
  end
```
By the way, `scan` halts further progress on error by default… you don't have to do anything to get this behavior.

That's it for scan. Like many `fastlane` tools, `scan` is deceptively simple to use — thanks to choosing sensible defaults — but has your back if you need to customize things. As usual, check out its documentation for a ton of further useful options. 


# Conclusion
**[Slide 5]** 
As you've seen, `scan` is a snap to set up and use. Integrating your unit tests directly into your core build processes makes all the sense in the world, and I highly recommend it. 
In the next episode, we'll see how to automate linting your Swift files. See you there…

[1]:	https://www.raywenderlich.com/3530-testing-in-ios