# Introduction
As you've seen, `fastlane` actions can be run either directly in the CLI or via `Fastfile` lanes. You might be wondering: When should you use one or the other? 
# Lecture
**[Slide 1]**
You've seen this pattern several times now: A `fastlane` action can be run directly in the command line:
**[Slide 2]** 
or in a lane:
Functionally, this is a great design pattern. But as you're getting up to speed with `fastlane`, it can sometimes lead to confusion about what form to use when, and how best to store project constants we'd like to share across these different environments.
## Which When?
First: Which form should you use when?
**[Slide 3]**
You'll generally want to use the command line for simple or one-off actions. The advantage of the command line is that you don't need to take the time to set up a special lane. And there are all kinds of things you can do in the command line that simply make more sense to performed on the spot as you need.
**[Slide 4]** 
On the other hand, lanes are built to support repeated chains of actions. Obviously, this is an immediate time saver: Typing in `fastlane my_workflow` is a ton faster than entering several consecutive CLI actions, each with inscrutable and hard-to-remember options.
But more importantly, lanes enforce consistency. As you continue building your lanes in the rest of this course, you'll increasingly see them take a form that directly mirrors the core iOS Development, Test Build and Distribution, and Delivery phases our course is focused on. 
**[Slide 5]**
The big idea here is that once these lanes are tuned to fit *your* team's workflows, every member of your team can simply run a standardized `fastlane` action and know that they can't miss a crucial step or do something in a way that differs from other team members. 
That kind of consistency and repeatability is the basis of team efficiency and code quality. And it of course paves the way to full continuous integration practices. So from this perspective, I'd suggest using ad hoc CLI commands for unique things you need to do that don't directly other team members and your team’s core assets, and using lanes for all things that do affect your core team workflows and assets.
## What Where?
**[Slide 6]**
<!-- Editor: Please Click slide to align bullet points with key points -->
Next, where should we store project settings and options? `fastlane` provides at least 3 layers for this:
- Manually enter this information in an ad hoc command
- Enter this information in a lane
- Create a configuration file (such as the `Appfile` and `Matchfile` you've already set up).
**[Slide 7]**
<!-- Editor: Please Click slide to align bullet points with 3 top-level points -->
Which is best depends on your goals:
- In line entry gives you maximum flexibility, but is naturally prone to all kinds of one off errors and idiosyncrasies: Use these solely for one-off kinds of tasks.
- In-lane entry is fast, and provides team-wide consistency. Still, there are some downsides:
	- You can end up repeating yourself (for example, entering account properties in multiple lanes), although this can be addressed with lane flow and/or variables.
	- As your lanes grow, you can end up with a massive `Fastfile` (not unlike Massive View Controller issues in iOS development).
	- Ad hoc actions won't benefit from these in-lane settings. 
- Configuration files keep project information cleanly separated. And they're accessible to both lanes *and* ad hoc command line actions. 
As a general guideline, I'd recommend storing settings in a dedicated configuration file if the action supports it. You'll soon see several more examples of configuration files, including in the next episode's challenge.
## Integration
`fastlane` also makes it possible to blur the lines between command line and lane use.
**[Slide 8]** 
For starters, and as you know well by now, `fastlane's` bread and butter is calling lanes from the command line:
**[Slide 9]** 
You can also access the in-lane form of an action from the command line *without* setting up a lane for it by using the `run` command:
This can also be useful in rare cases when an action isn't designed to be run directly in the CLI and yet for some reason, you really need it there. 
**[Slide 10]** 
You also have the ability within lanes to directly invoke shell commands and retrieve their results:
Being able to call shell commands directly in lanes can be surprisingly useful. As your lanes get more ambitious, this can fill in edge case gaps where an in-lane form of an action may not exist. It can also be useful in rare cases where the lane form of a `fastlane` action doesn't provide functionality the command line variant.
## What are my Lanes?
As your lanes grow and new team members are getting up to speed with workflows you've defined, it's natural to want to know at a glance what lanes are available for a given project.
**[Slide 11]** 
`fastlane` makes it easy to get a compact list…
**[Slide 12]** 
As well as an annotated one.
As you can see, the annotated`lanes` command is designed to display a `description` for each lane. So how do you add a lane description?
**[Slide 13]** 
Adding a lane description is as simple as adding a line beginning with `fastlane’s` `desc` keyword and your description right before a lane's declaration in your `Fastfile`:
Last, `fastlane` also generates a README.md file containing all your lanes each time you run `match`. We’ll take a closer look at this in the next episode.
One last thing: You'll likely have helper lanes you don't want to be called directly. To prevent these types of lanes from being included in either `list` or `lanes` output, declare them with `private_lane`:
**[Slide 14]**
Be aware that you can't call private lanes directly from the command line. This is exactly the behavior we want, but just remember to only mark lanes private if you don't need this functionality.
## Conclusion
As you can see, `fastlane` provides you with tools to address virtually any edge case imaginable. And just as importantly, it gives you a wide array of tools to help you keep your lanes DRY and cleanly documented
In the next episode, it'll be your turn to add these techniques to your own lanes. See you there!