# Introduction
You've learned a great deal about `fastlane`, not the least of which is how much further you can take your own fastlane than the specifics we've shown in this course.
In this episode, we'll put the icing on this cake by reviewing a series of `fastlane` best practices to use as you build out your own lanes and workflows.
# Lecture
**[Slide 1]** 
In the context of iOS development, `fastlane` is a powerful meta tool. As with all our development tools, working with `fastlane` is a craft. The more you embrace its best practices, the more readable, efficient and maintainable your `fastlane` automation will be.
## The Right Tool
**[Slide 2]**
I'll start with a reminder about fastlane's different "layers" — directly in the command line, in lanes, and in configuration files. 
<!-- Editor: Please Click to reveal per-bullet points. -->
- Direct command line invocations are great for one time actions, either as you're setting up a project or doing one off things over the life of your project.
- Lanes are the realm of repeatable automation processes that can be shared team-wide. A well-designed set of lanes can acts as a blueprint defining core team processes. Take advantage of this to bring consistency and certainty to your core processes — you'll be glad you did.
- Finally, storing action defaults in Fastlane's several configuration files. Doing this can significantly simplify your `Fastfiles`, help you avoid repeating yourself, and ensure that default settings are available everywhere.
## Lane Maintenance
**[Slide 3]** Update with examples of each bullet point
That said, lanes are the heart and soul of fastlane. Let's review some best practices and tips for organizing these:
<!-- Editor: Please Click to reveal per-bullet points. -->
- First, remember to take advantage of encapsulation and abstraction. You've seen how to create "helper" lanes that can accept and return values. Use this capability to keep your core process lanes lean, focused on higher level tasks, and to avoid repeating yourself. 
- Use fastlane's organization tools to structure your Fastfile: You might gather helper lanes together separately, and then organize your core lanes by major development phases as we've done here. 
- Similarly, use `private_lane` on any helper lanes you can. This simplifies documentation, and makes clear to all team members what processes are "public", and prevents private actions from accidentally being run by themselves.
- If your `Fastfile` starts getting bigger than you'd like, consider splitting it into manageable chunks, so that you have a lean "main" `Fastfile` that then imports your smaller refactored helper files. The syntax for this is simply `import <path to secondary fastfile>`.
- If your lanes develop to the point that you have unchanging workflows, you can store these in a central git repo and then reference them from any project Fastfile using `import_from_git(url:)`
## Special Lanes
**[Slide 4]**
Your Fastfile can also contain special lanes adding still more consistency and repeatability to your processes:
<!-- Editor: Please Click to reveal per-bullet points. -->
- `before_all` automatically runs before any other lanes. Place this at the top of your Fastfile, and have it run any processes you *always* want to happen at the start of a workflow, like updating fastlane or running core processes. By the way, don't confuse this with `before_each` which if present will run before *every* lane — including helper lanes — called in a workflow. 
- `after_all` runs after all lanes complete — *if* everything completed successfully. This might be a good place to send out a team notification. 
- `error` runs if an action throws an exception. This action has parameters for the lane where the error occurred, the specific exception raised, and additional options, and is an ideal place for consistent error handling and reporting. `after_all` and `error` should be placed at the bottom of your Fastfile.
## Version Control for Fastlane Itself
Speaking of making things more consistent… 
**[Slide 5]** 
Don't forget to include your fastlane configuration files in your project git repository. This is of course essential to ensure that all team members have identical sets of lanes and configurations. 
Your basic strategy will be to:
<!-- Editor: Please Click to reveal per-bullet points. -->
- include the root-level `Gemfile` and `Gemfile.lock` as well as the `fastlane` directory.
- Within the fastlane directory, ignore transient artifacts such as the `screenshots` and `test_output` directories, and all .xml and .html files. 
## Use a Gemfile and Bundle Exec
**[Slide 6]** 
We've used the command `fastlane <action>` in much of this course. in production, however, it's best practice to do the following:
- Formally define your project's fastlane version and dependencies by using a project `Gemfile` and running `bundle update` to add it to version control
- Whenever you run any action or lane, invoke it using `bundle exec fastlane…` instead of the simpler `fastlane…` form we've used here for convenience. While longer to type, this form is both faster and ensures environment consistency across machines. If you put `ensure_bundle_exec` in your `before_all` lane, fastlane itself will make sure you never accidentally run `fastlane` without `bundle exec`
## Think Outside the Box
**[Slide 7]** 
Beyond these specific techniques, it's worth closing with a reminder about fastlane's deep and intrinsic extensibility.
As you've seen in this section, fastlane's reach extends well beyond the App Store. And while we've shown several ways you can extend your workflows here, many more possibilities await. For example, fastlane has `carthage` and `cocoapods` actions you might add to your `before_all` lane. Similarly, fastlane can readily integrate with larger continuous integration platforms. 
Almost everywhere you look, fastlane gives you sensible defaults, but also bridges and paths leading outwards almost anywhere you might want to go. if an action is typically part of your real world workflows already, start by assuming you can and should integrate it into your fastlane implementation of that process. The less you have to manually remember to do — or make sure your teammates don't forget when it's their turn — the more you can focus on higher level issues.
## But Not *Too* Far :]
**[Slide 8]** 
And that said, remember the wise old adage: "Beware Premature Optimization". `fasltane` is meant to be *your* wingman, and its purpose is to make your iOS development life easier, more productive and more fun. It's not meant to create a heavy or intimidating edifice that gets in your way. Or to quote an as-yet-to-be sage: "Keep Automation Humane"
# Conclusion
**[Slide 9]** 
To summarize, fastlane offers tools and conventions you can and should use to organize, simplify, and bring production-worth control to your fastlane configurations on each project. Take the craft of creating elegant and performant lanes seriously, and you'll be repaid many times over.
in the final episode, we'll wrap things up. See you there…
