# Introduction
in this episode, it's your turn to cruise with `fastlane`. You'll create 2 new lanes: The first using TestFlight, and the second using any third party service you'd like. 
# Introducing the Challenge
## Basic Challenge
Your challenge begins with `TestFlight`.
- First, update your `build_appstore` and `build_adhoc` lanes so that right before each build the project gets a fresh build number.
- Create a new `distribute_to_appstore ` lane and set it to:
	- First, call your `build_appstore` lane
	- Then call pilot.
	- Provide pilot your team name (if needed) and set its changelog to the dynamic version and build numbers of your app.
When you're done, run the action and enjoy seeing all the things your new lane is doing on your behalf!
## Advanced Challenge
Now here's your advanced challenge:
- Choose a third party test distribution services (see [https://docs.fastlane.tools/actions/#beta][1]). If none jump out at you, `installr` is particularly easy to set up. 
- If you don't have an account for this service, follow the action's inline link to that service, and set up a free account. (At the time of recording, each linked service offered a free account).  
- Create a new lane, and name it `distribute_to_<service_name>`.
	- Call `build_adhoc`
	- Call the corresponding `fastlane` action for your service. You'll need to get the needed API and possibly other keys from your third party account, and then review the matching action's documentation to determine the exact parameters needed.
All right! Pause the video now and give that a try! Have fun, and I'll see you on the other side…
# Pause for Challenge


# Demo: Challenge Answers
Welcome back! I hope you had fun with the challenges. Let's review them now…


## Basic Challenge
I open `Fastfile` and locate our `build_appstore` and `build_adhoc` lanes. 
In each, I insert a call to `increment_build_number` right before `gym` runs. 
```ruby
    lane :build_appstore do
      sync_signing_assets(type: "appstore")
      increment_build_number
      gym(
        output_directory: "build_Appstore",
        export_method: "app-store"
      )
    end
```
Next, I add a new  `distribute_to_appstore` lane. Inside it, I first call our its `build_appstore` lane, and then I stub out a call to  `pilot`. 
```ruby
  lane :distribute_to_appstore do
    build_appstore
    pilot(

    )
  end 
```
Then I set my `team_name`, and configure `changelog` to include the desired lane context properties:
```ruby
  lane :distribute_to_appstore do
    build_appstore
    pilot(
      team_name: "Brian Schick",
      changelog: "Version {lane_context[SharedValues::VERSION_NUMBER]}, Build {lane_context[SharedValues::BUILD_NUMBER]}"
    )
  end 
```
As always, go ahead and take a moment if you need to correct anything, and when you’re done, run the lane. I’ll see you in a moment.
# Pause
# Resume


OK. I’ll save my changes and then run our lane:
```ruby
fastlane distribute_to_appstore
```


Thanks to our nested `build_appstore` lane, this lane packs a serious punch. Feel free to get a tasty beverage while your machine does a metric ton of work for you.
<!-- Wait for completion -->


When our process finishes, we get a helpful inline summary of what our new lane has done for us — along with a reminder that fastlane just saved 10 minutes of our development lives.
A quick reality check in Xcode shows that our build number was incremented as expected.
<!-- Show in XCode -->
And a check at TestFlight in App Store Connect shows our newly-uploaded build there as well…
<!-- Show in browser -->
Nice.


## Advanced Challenge
On to our advanced challenge:
I've chosen Installr, since it's a breeze to set up. I go to their landing page, quickly create up a new account, and I'm in. I'll need an API Key, so I generate one. Nice and easy!
Now in my Fastfile, I create a new lane called `distribute_to_installr`. The first step will run our `build_adhoc` lane, since third party services require Ad Hoc certificates and profiles. 
Working off the documentation at [../actions/installr]() I see that I need to pass the key I just generated, and that I can optionally pass in notes. Once again, I'll pass in my notes dynamically:
```ruby
  lane :distribute_to_installr do
    build_adhoc
    installr(
      api_token: "QKB8OxpGNcoGMKs4TUmRmPOtt4RTN1iw",
      notes: "Version {lane_context[SharedValues::VERSION_NUMBER]}, Build {lane_context[SharedValues::BUILD_NUMBER]}"
    )
  end
```
I save my changes and then run my new action…
```ruby
fastlane distribute_to_installr
```
Once it finishes, I zip over to my Installr page. Everything's there and ready to go. Amazing!


# Conclusion
Congratulations. Once again, your lanes have reached new milestones of power and functionality, and they now stand ready to automate the entire beta build and distribution process on your behalf. 
In the next section, we'll wrap up this section. See you there…

[1]:	https://docs.fastlane.tools/actions/#beta
