# Introduction
In this episode, we'll take a short break from our focus on Development phase actions in order to round out our understand of lanes themselves. 
# Lecture
## Switching Lanes
You've now created several lanes in your Fastfile. Individually, each is quite functional. But zipping down the highway's not much fun if you're stuck in the same lane all the time. 
Let's take an example: In the challenge you just completed, you first created a  `sync_all_development` lane, and then a separate `sync_device_info` lane. It makes sense to keep these actions in separate lanes. However, what I'd really like is to add the functionality of my `sync_device_info` directly into my `sync_all_development` lane.
**[Slide ]** Show the code
Fastlane makes this drop dead simple: You can call any lane directly from another, simply by using its name
```ruby
lane :sync_all_development do
  sync_device_info
  match(
    type: "development",
    force_for_new_devices: true
  )
end
```
**[Slide ]** Show the Cruising info inline below
Now when I run the sync\_all\_development lane, fastlane switching lanes automatically on my behalf, 
- Driving the lane 'ios sync\_all\_development' 🚀
- Cruising over to lane 'ios sync\_app\_info' 🚖
- Cruising back to lane 'ios sync\_all\_development' 🚘
**[Slide ]** Vault opened
Just as with well-formatted Swift code, we're now free to compose lanes as we'd compose functions and methods, and we can call them as needed. The only significant limitation is that if you can't call lanes inside a different platform grouping (in this course, all our lanes are within a single :iOS group, so this won't affect us here). Otherwise, you're free to repurpose lanes as you see fit
## Control Flow
**[Slide ]** 
You can add conditional logic much as you do in Swift. If blocks are particularly simple to use:
```ruby
lane :example do
  ...
  if some_variable == true
    # do some stuff
  elseif
    # something else
  end
  ...
end
```
**[Slide ]** 
You can stop executing a lane before it reaches its end with the `next` keyword:
```ruby
lane :example do
  ...
  if cached_build_available?
    next
  end
  ...
end
```
Note that Ruby likes to use variable names ending in question marks for Boolean values. This 