# Introduction
The first advanced topic we'll cover is how to integrate git directly into your `fastlane` workflows. `fastlane` has fantastic support for git, and it makes all the sense in the world to add direct integration to your automation workflows. Let's take a look.
# Lecture
It goes without saying that virtually all modern team workflows are centered around version control, to the point that it can be hard to imagine doing any real work without it. And if you use git for version control, it't not only a really good idea to integrate git directly into your fastlane processes, but it'd actually be a pretty big step in the wrong direction *not* to do this. 
Fastlane has outstanding git support. While most other actions you've seen have been 1:1 with their domains (scan for tests, gym for builds, etc), fastlane's git tools are atomic, and for this reason, there are lots of them. 
By the way, although these actions can be run in the command line, we'll focus solely on their use in lanes here.
OK, let's take a closer look:
**[Slide ]** Key Git Actions [https://docs.fastlane.tools/actions/#source-control][1]
That's a very deep list of actions, and of course, as with the other actions you've seen, most of these git actions will have further options. Let's call out some of the most important:
**[Slide ]** `ensure_git_status_clean`
This action is designed to ensure — before you run any other actions — that your local repo is clean, meaning that you don't have any uncommitted changes that could break things downstream. 
**[Slide ]** `ensure_git_branch(branch: "name")`
This action lets you make sure that you're on a specific branch when you run a lane, and takes the name of the desired branch as its single parameter.
**[Slide ]** `git_pull`
This one does just what it says. Nice and simple.
**[Slide ]** `git_commit(message: "commit-message")`
Directly commits your changes with the message passed. You'll likely use this at or near the end of a workflow to commit fastlane-executed changes.
**[Slide ]** `push_to_git_remote`
This is a natural pairing with with `git_commit`, and again includes several additional useful options.
**[Slide ]** `add_git_tag(tag: "v0.1.1")`
Lets you add ad hoc tags, and includes several useful options.
**[Slide ]** sh("git commit -m "watch this!")
There are many more dedicated git actions that further extend fastlane's git capabilities. Further, if you ever hit an edge case not covered by these, you can simply run a direct shell command. Obviously, this useful utility action is has uses throughout fastlane.
# Demo
Let's update our lanes to incorporate git. I'll focus on 2 lanes, starting with our workhorse lane `build_appstore`. Since this lane is responsible for building my app, it's a natural choice for git integration.
```ruby
 lane :build_appstore do
    scan
    sync_all_appstore
    increment_build_number
    gym(
      scheme: "ChewChewTrain",
      output_directory: "build_AppStore",
      build_method: "app-store"
    )
  end
```
I'll start by adding 2 git checks to make sure I don't have any uncommitted changes and that I'm on the right branch. I'll do this before I bump my build number:
```ruby
...
sync_all_appstore
ensure_git_status_clean
ensure_bit_branch(branch: "staging")
git_pull
...
```
Next, after gym has finished building I'll 



[1]:	https://docs.fastlane.tools/actions/#source-control