# Introduction
This episode brings our fastlane for iOS course to a close. 
# Lecture
I hope you've enjoyed meeting and learning about fastlane. It's been quite an adventure!
## Where we've been
We began by learning how to set up fastlane on a machine and then initialize it for an iOS project. 
We then focused on how fastlane can improve every phase of iOS development, beginning with the Development phase, through Beta Testing and Distribution, and finally Delivery of your app for sale on the App Store. Throughout this process, we repeatedly saw how fastlane does everything it can to make basic usage as simple and trouble-free as possible.
But we didn't stop there. In this section, you met just some of the many ways fastlane continues to be your wingman well beyond the App Store ecosystem so your lanes can power continuous integration with git, unit tests, and much more. 
Better still, we've seen how fastlane's deeply open and extensible design encourages and supports a broad range of third party plugins, and gives you the option to create your own actions if needed. 
## 
If like me, you're not a Rubyist, fastlane's Ruby codebase might have seemed a bit intimidating at first. But we've seen that crafting custom lanes and setting configurations isn't at all difficult. 
At the same time, we've also seen that working with fastlane is a craft that should be taken seriously and done well. fastlane is a powerful and precise environment that worthy of your attention and best efforts
Ultimately, the purpose of the specific topics and exercises throughout this course have been to give you the tools to go beyond the specifics we've covered here. 
Your fastlane environment should ultimately be *yours*. Our hope is this course will inspired you to go on an adventure in crafting your own ideal automation workflows. 
Here's wishing you an iOS life that thanks to fastlane is less stressful, more productive, and more profitable. 
## Conclusion
<!-- Any ideas? End with the above, or is there anything I should include here? All things welcome :] -->
