# Intro
We'll begin our exploration of fastlane by setting the stage with a quick flyover of the ways we interact with the App Store ecosystem.
# Introducing the Challenge
**[Slide ]** Developer Island
No app is an island. As developers, it's natural to think in code-centric and functionality-centric terms as we build our apps in Xcode. But in reality, from the moment we create an iOS app up to and past the point we deliver it to the App Store for sale, we're constantly interacting with Apple's vast App Store ecosystem. 
We do this both explicitly — such as when we distribute an app for beta testing with TestFlight or submit it to App Store Connect for sale. But we also do this implicitly, for example every time we build an app and Xcode code silently signs it, and every time we test an Xcode project in a simulator, relying on implicit provisioning profiles to make this possible.
This course is all about streamlining our many interactions with the App Store ecosystem. And even more, it's all about learning how you can use fastlane to improve your own specific development workflows.
And so, I'd like to start things with a challenge for you. This challenge won't involve any coding, but it's every bit as important as the code challenges you'll face throughout the rest of this course.
**[Challenge Slide]**
Here's your first challenge: Envision an app — either one you've delivered to the app store, or perhaps that next great app idea you have right now. Make a list of all the ways you interact with the App Store ecosystem over the lifetime of that app. There are some obvious things here I’m sure you’ll catch, but there are also a surprising number of subtler elements you might not think of at first. 
OK, ready? Go ahead and pause the video now and draw up your list. When you’re done, resume the video and we’ll compare lists. See you then…
# Pause for Challenge
# Challenge Answers
Welcome back! Let’s take a look at how our lists compare…
**[Slide ]** 
 I'll start at the beginning. Well, actually before an app itself begins. Even before we code a single line of a project in Xcode, we first sign up with the Apple Developer program, in the process ensuring that we have a unique Apple ID. Already at this point, we're taken our first step into the vast Apple development world and we've created or linked an Apple ID that will form the basis of our — and our apps' — App Store lifecycles.
**[Slide ]** Creating an App
Next, I create an Xcode project for my Next Great App®. Before I even save the process, I give my app a bundle ID — a unique identifier — and link it to a development team (even if I'm a mighty team of one). Both these identifiers form key pillars of that app's relationship to the App Store ecosystem from then on. And at the same time, Xcode silently obtains a crucial Provisioning profile for us that will be essential for us to code sign (that is, build and test) our app every step of the way.
 **[Slide ]** Teams
If you're part of a team, more things happen as multiple people begin working on a project. Each developer must be added to the team, and each device to be tested on needs to be provisioned. Typically, these steps are managed through a combination of manual interactions with App Store Connect website and silently via Xcode. 
**[Slide ]** Extended Capabilities
As you flesh out your app, you'll likely want to add additional Capabilities, such as MapKit, HealthKit or CloudKit. Each capability you'd like to add requires getting valid certificates, provisioning profiles, and an entitlement. Typically, Xcode handles this on your behalf.
**[Slide ]** Testing
Next comes the time when you're ready to test your app, either via Apple's Test Flight or a third party service. Either way, you need to obtain provisioning profiles from Apple, create an code-signed .ipa file, and submit your app for distribution. And, of course, you need to sign up and manage testers for your app. All these steps are deeply intertwined with the App Store ecosystem.
**[Slide ]** Prep for Distribution
As you prepare to submit your app to the App Store, you need to prep things. Is your app metadata all set to go in all languages you support? Does it violate any App Store policies? Have you created all your screenshots — for all devices and again for all languages you'll support? Once again, the App Store ecosystem looms large here.
**[Slide ]** App Store Submission
Finally, the big day comes, and it's time to submit your app to the App Store for sale. We create an archive file with a unique build number and upload it to the App Store via a point-and-click-intensive process. And then we wait and hope, and if our app's not immediately approved, we rinse and repeat these operations until our app is finally approved.
We could continue, but I think that's enough to make clear just how much of the life of our app is intertwined with the App Store ecosystem. 
Many of these steps are quiet time-consuming. They also make or break the success of our app. And yet, in the real world, we often encounter them right when we have the least time and patience, making it easy to not give them the attention they deserve — ultimately harming our apps' chances at success.
Here's the good news: Fastlane's overall design and individual tools fit each App Store problem we have like a well-oiled glove. For every App Store step we've called out here, there's a fastlane ready to vastly improve it.
We'll follow a similarly developer-centric approach in this course:
- In this section, we'll introduce basic fastlane build actions to get things rolling.
- In section 2, you'll learn about more advanced fastlane tools to deeply streamline how you and your team build and provision your apps.
- In Section 3, we'll learn how fastlane speeds and transforms all things related to distributing your app to beta testers.
- Section 4 will focus on greatly improving the process of preparing and submitting your app to the App Store.
- Finally, Section 5 will present advanced tools and best practices to take all this to the next level.
# Up Next
in the next section, we’ll begin our dive into fastlane by installing it on your mac. See you there…