# Introduction
In this episode, it's your turn to complete our fastlane `release` lane. 
As you do this, you'll bring everything you've learned in this section full circle: With a single command, your custom lane will handle the entire cycle of pre-checking, building, snapshotting and framing, and ultimately delivering your app and all its metadata to the App Store. 
# Introducing the Challenge
Your main challenge will be to add `frameit` and `deliver` to your current `release` lane. Here's the details:
- Configure `frameit` to use white device frames
- Configure `deliver` like to:
	- Skp precheck (since you already run precheck at the top of this lane)
	- Skip showing the web page summary of snapshots
	- Don't submit for review
	- Optionally add your team name (if you're in multiples).
At this point, your lane will be functionally complete in its handling of your screenshots and metadata. But it won't yet handle building and submitting your app itself.
So, your advanced challenge is to add this last bit of missing functionality in. To do this:
- Add a call to the app store build lane, to create an .ipa file with an incremented build number.
- Update your deliver method so that it uploads your build lane creates.
# Pause for Challenge
Once again, remember that the fastlane documentation pages and `fastlane actions <name> ` are your best starting points for discovering parameter names and other information you'll need. 
Have fun with this. Pause your video now, give these challenges a shot, and I'll see you on the other side…
# Demo: Challenge Answers
Welcome back! I hope you had fun with these challanges. Let's walk through them together now:
## Basic Challenge
In our Fastfile release lane, I start by adding frameit right after snapshot. I'll set the color to white, setting this to true. 
Now I add deliver. I want to skip doing a redundant precheck, so I set `run_precheck_before_submit` to false. I don't yet want to auto submit for review, so I add `submit_for_review` and also set it to false. To avoid seeing my screenshots every time, I add `force` and set it to true. Finally, since I belong to multiple teams, I set my `team_name` as well. 
I'll run this now.
```bash
fastlane release
```
As advertised, our lane has handled everything needed to precheck our metadata. It's then extracted all our snapshots, framed and resized them, and then submitted all this to the App Store. Sweet!
## Advanced Challenge
Of course, our lane isn't yet doing what we need to *release* our app, so let's do that, via our advanced challenge.
When you set up your `build_appstore` lane earlier, you created exactly what you need to create a distributable .ipa file, including auto-incrementing your build number. So we simply call `build_appstore` right after your `precheck` call at the top of the lane.
Now we just need to tell deliver about our .ipa file, by adding `ipa: "./build_AppStore/ChewChewTrain.ipa"`
And that's all it takes. This is a nice example of the cumulative power of fastlane, as actions build upon one another.
OK, I'll save my changes and run
```bash
fastlane release
```
once again, jump in my time machine, aaaand…
<!-- Switch to browser to show results -->
As promised, fastlane has just done *everything* needed to synthesize my archive build with a new build number, create my metadata and screenshots, and upload them all directly to the app store. Had I enabled it, my new build would also be immediately submitted for review and release.
# Conclusion
Congratulations! Your release lane is now a serious powerhouse ready to save you hours of time every time you release a new build! 
Take a moment to feel a very well-deserved sense of accomplishment. I'll see you in the next episode, where we'll wrap up this section.