# Intro
In Section 1, you learned how fastlane can automatically manage your personal code signing credentials via the actions `cert` and `sigh`. 
As you saw, these are robust, feature-complete and powerful tools capable of doing a great deal to streamline how you manage your code signing assets. However, there's a core problem with these tools, and interestingly, it has nothing to do with the tools themselves. instead, it has to do with the approach to iOS code signing we've all used for years. 
As it turns out, `fastlane` has an ambitious plan to change this. In this episode, you'll learn how `fastlane` proposes to make a Copernican Shift in the way iOS teams manage their code signing credentials. So fasten your seatbelts, because our Development `fastlanes` are about to get turbocharged!
# Lecture
`fastlane's` critique of traditional code signing is based on a simple observation: Code signing assets are fundamentally tied to *individuals*. But modern iOS development typically takes place in *teams*.  Everything else we'll learn in the next few episodes grows organically from this one seed.
## The Trouble with Tribbles
**[Slide 1]** 
Think of everything we've done so far with `cert` and `sigh`. These tools elegantly automated obtaining, storing, managing these resources. And yet, even with all that, the Certificates and Profiles `cert` and `sigh` deliver are still the property of one individual developer. They're stored on his or her developer's machine, and tied to their personal account.
This works wonderfully when you're a team of one. But what happens as your team grows to two, five, or twenty? As each new team member is brought on board, they each add their own development machines, iOS devices, and most importantly, their personal signing requests, certificates, and keys into the mix.
**[Slide 2]** 
It's easy to see why the process developed this way historically. And this schema bears marked similarities to how Apple has traditionally approached other common cloud assets like music, photos, bookmarks, and more. Apple's products in many of these categories long started with an all-important "i" for a good reason.
**[Slide 3]** 
The problem is that when we develop on teams, we naturally want to hoist our processes and thinking from an "I am an Island" worldview to a "there's no team without me" perspective. Oops, I mean, "there no I in team". 
**[Slide 4]** 
Tools like git, Jira, Slack, Trello, Git and many more reflect this team perspective. Yes, we're all still individuals. But the center of gravity now shifts to a centralized, team-centric view. At a certain point in any team's life, it's no longer OK to say "Go ask Jill… I think she's got those files". Teams need consistency and centralization that individual-centric approaches don't support well.
**[Slide 5]**
Viewed from this perspective, individualizing code signing assets can be seen as inherently brittle in a team context. If every developer on a team has their own code signing assets and iOS devices, provisioning profiles (which map code signing apps to sets of devices) will exponentially multiply. 
**[Slide 6]**
Developers join and leave projects, credentials get lost, expire or become corrupted, and the team's collection of developer devices can proliferate like an exploding herd of Star Trekkian tribbles. Xcode can compound this by occasionally invalidating all installed provisioning profiles. Maybe worst of all, every team developer who can submit changes needs full access to App Store Connect, raising the possibility that a single tired developer's error might inadvertently cause an entire team serious headaches.
**[Slide 7]**
`fastlane` takes a step back and suggests a change that's both simple and profound: Instead of constantly struggling to manage individual-based assets in sync, why not make the team the center of this solar system? Specifically, why not create a single set of code signing assets, store them centrally, and have each team member download and use this single set of shared assets everywhere? 
**[Slide 8]** 
Fans of the history of science may notice that this is quite similar to the classical Copernican Revolution. In that case, shifting  our understanding of the cosmos from a long-established but increasingly troublesome earth-based model to a simple and elegant sun-centric solar system ushered in modern science and technology. At the least, `fastlane's` revolutionary proposal is a powerful and intriguing idea. But how would it work?
**[Slide 9]**
Fastlane lays out its vision for this new schema in its Code Signing Guide. It's short and to the point, and well worth checking out. 
**[Slide 10]**
Where would we store these team-based assets so that they're both secure and transparently accessible? `fastlane's`  answer is to turn to the same tool that's solved this for team code and other assets: git. Git is centralized, secure, repos can (and must in this case) be private, and of course, it excels as a central point for distributable team assets.
**[Slide 11]** 
If we could store a single set of assets this way and distribute them transparently to team members whenever they needed them, Apple's requirements will still be fulfilled. But now, instead of an exploding set of Tribbles, we'd just have a single cuddly Tribble to manage. I shall call mine Fluffy :)
**[Slide 12]** 
<!-- Editor: Please click to match slide bullet points to numbered items -->
Here's how this workflow would work:
1. A team manager creates a new, *private* Git repo.
2. New private keys, profiles and certificates are obtained from Apple, encrypted and stored in the private repo. 
3. Each team member imports the certificates and private keys to their Keychain, and the provisioning profiles are copied to their Libraries.
## Really?
**[Slide 13]**
Personally, when I first encountered this idea, I was intrigued and… nervous. Do I really want to store my core signing assets — including my *private* code signing key — in the cloud? `fastlane's` manifesto does a nice job of clarifying and evaluating the potential security risks or this approach. Here's a summary:
**[Slide 14]** 
1. If you follow `fastlane's` recommendations, your git repo storing your critical assets will be private. Further, unless you intentionally disable default functionality, all code-signing assets will automatically be OpenSSL-encrypted with a passphrase as they're being stored in the cloud. 
2. It's worth a reminder that we all rely on git every day to keep our critical code and virtually all other team assets safe, so it's likely not a significant leap to further trust them with our code signing assets. if we're willing to trust our intellectual property to git, why not the assets we use to code sign them?
2. But what if an attacker somehow stole a private key? As it turns out, in order to code sign your app, they'd also need to break into your separate project code repository to do this. Further, to get an app code-signed by Apple they'd need to submit it for review — requiring they get your App Store Connect credentials — and those assets aren't in this git repo either. Similar safeties hold for attempts to install a signed application onto ad hoc iOS devices, where the attacker would again need additional assets not in this repo.  
	Enterprise profiles do present more risk, and there *is* a possibility an attacker could distribute a signed application with the organization's name. Even here, however, the enterprise certificate could simply revoked, instantly breaking any illicitly-modified apps.
3. As a final precaution, `fastlane` advises using the best practice of having every team member enable 2 factor git authentication. This provides a final layer of security, and is, of course, equally advisable for all your project git repos. 
## The Verdict
**[Slide 15]** 
So what's the verdict?
There's no absolute answer, of course. There's finite risk with any code-signing approach, including the individual-based one we've all used by default. Each developer and team must find their own balance between security, convenience and efficiency. 
Personally, I feel that any added risk here is minimal, and that potential gains in team efficiency are highly compelling. I'm in.
The good news is that while fastlane believes this is a better approach in *most* cases, it doesn't push you. You can build complete fastlane workflows using traditional individual credentials, or you can adopt team-based code-signing. We'll use team signing from here forward in this course. But one size does *not* fit all here, and the choice is yours, plain and simple.
One last note: the `fastlane` team has also added integration with Google Cloud, which you can use as an alternative to git. If you have investments in the Google infrastructure, this may appeal to you. However, we'll focus exclusively on git in this course.
# Conclusion
In the next episode, you'll meet your `match` — that is, you'll meet `match`, the action that powers `fastlane's` new team-based code signing approach. See you there!