# Intro
We've come to the end of our first section. Let's do a quick summary before moving on…
# Lecture
You've learned a lot in this section, and laid the groundwork for the really exciting stuff that's about to come. Here's a quick review of what you've covered so far:
- You've installed and initialized fastlane and its upstream dependencies — the Xcode command line tools, Ruby, HomeBrew, and Git.
- You also installed fastlane in our sample project and seen the core components that get added.
- You learned about fastlane actions, how to find and understanding their documentation, and how to recognize and leverage consistent design patterns fastlane consistency uses.
- You've seen how to use fastlane actions in both the command line, and in lanes, and what the best uses are for each.
- And best of all, you've begun developing your own set of lanes, which you'll continue growing throughout this course.
In short, you've laid down a solid foundation for everything that's to come. Like any building project, the foundation is never the most exciting part, and this is no exception: The best — by far — is yet to come. 
# Conclusion
In the next section, we'll continue focusing on the Development phase of an iOS project. But we'll take off the training wheels and move to fastlane's best-in-class tools for team development. We'll also see how fastlane can simplify and streamline another key part of the Development phase: registering extended capabilities and in-app notifications.
I'll see you there!