# Introduction
Thanks to `snapshot`, we're now able to generate complete sets of app screenshots with one easy command. 
But brilliant as that is, our end game is to create the best possible screenshots for our app and have them ready for automated submission to the App Store: To get to our happy place, we'll need to inset our screenshots into production-worthy device frameworks. That's just what we'll do in this episode.
# Lecture
## The Hard Way
**[Slide 1]** 
Manually placing each screenshot within matching device-specific frameworks isn't technically difficult. It just requires downloading frame images and then doing a lot of repetitive manual legwork to exactly size and inset each screenshot into each frame using an app like Sketch or Photoshop. 
Doable? Sure. Good use of our development time or skills? Not so much. Once again, we really want to automate this.
**[Slide 2]**
The `fastlane` superhero of this episode goes by the name of `frameit`.  As its name implies, `frameit`  is designed to wrap device-specific frames around your raw generated screenshots, and to do it with panache.
## Installing ImageMagick
**[Slide 3]** 
Before you can run `frameit` , you do need to install a helper utility called `ImageMagick`. If you're not familiar with it, `ImageMagick` is a long-time cross-platform command line utility that packs a lot of image processing power. Since you have homebrew installed, installing it's a snap. Simply run 
```bash
brew install imagemagick
```
Please take a moment to pause the video and do this now.  I'll wait here :-]
# Pause to Install


# Demo
## Command Line
Thanks for doing that, and now onwards… 
`frameit` again follows standard `fastlane` conventions. It can be used in both the CLI and lanes, but there's a gotcha.
The `fastlane` documentation recommends that you favor using `frameit` in lanes. This makes good sense, since framing screenshots naturally fits into larger workflows you'll want to automate.
But if you do choose to use `frameit` in the CLI, be aware that `frameit` in the CLI will recursively step through all images in your current directory.  Since you'll likely be in the project root, this means by default the command line version will step through *all* image files in your project. 
So if you do run `frameit` in the CLI, just be sure to first cd into your screenshots directory to avoid this issue.
For our part, we'll only cover its use within lanes, where this won't be an issue.


## Lane Use
Using `frameit` in a lane is clean and simple:
```ruby
lane :sandbox do
  frameit(path: "./fastlane/screenshots")
end
```
As you can see, it's straightforward to specify the path to our screenshots here. 
As usual, you get additional options via parameters. Notably, you can specify a device's color like this:
```ruby
lane :sandbox do
  frameit(path: "./fastlane/screenshots", rose_gold: true)
end
```
`frameit` will thoughtfully fall back to a sensible available color if the color you've specified isn't available for a given device type.


I'll run this sandbox lane now…
```bash
fastlane sandbox
```
<!-- Wait for framing to complete -->


As you can see, `frameit` stepped through each screenshot, for each selected language, in my specified path. Using `Image Magick`, it inset each image into a new `_framed.png` file. It either applied my selected color, or feel back to a sensible default when it wasn't available.
Let's take a look at the results in Finder. 
<!-- Step through results in Mojave Gallery View -->


I'll switch to Mojave Gallery View and filter to see only my newly-framed images.
Sweet.

# Interlude:
Sweet as our framed images are, they're a bit… generic. We'd like to be able to add more personality to them, since they're the images likely to determine if our potential customers will decide our app is worth installing.
**[Slide 4]**
To customize our images, we'd like to be able to apply captions (remembering that these need to be specific for each scene in each language). We'd also like to specify things like the font properties and placement of our captions. Oh, and we’d like to add a custom background image for each.
**[Slide 5]**
Because we need the ability to specify settings down to the scene-language level, we'll need a deep structure able to accommodate this. This means that we won't be able to use the kind of simple method parameters or flat-structured configuration files as we've seen so far.
To address these needs, we'll need to manually create  `Framefile.json` and place it in the `.fastlane/screenshots` subdirectory. 
Note that this is the first time we've seen a `.json` file, and it's here precisely because `JSON` can handle the deeper data structure we need in this case.
**[Slide 6]**
The general form of the `Framefile` looks like this \<points to side\>. It has 2 main parts:
<!-- Editor: Please click twice to reveal captions matching these 2 points. -->
- `default` takes an object containing settings like font type, color, offset and position, device sizing and background image.
-  `data` takes an array of scene-specific settings, allowing us to customize any scene as desired. These settings are shared across all language instances of a scene.
Note that if you reference any assets in this file — like fonts or background images — you'll need to provide their paths relative to the `screenshots` directory.


# Demo
## Project Framefile
Back in our project, I'll add a new `Framefile`:
```bash
code ./fastlane/screenshots/Framefile.json
```
And then configure it with some basic JSON:
```json
{
  "device_frame_version": "latest",
  "default": {
    "keyword": {
      "font": "./fonts/Chalkduster.ttf"
    },
    "title": {      
      "color": "#B35800"
    },
    "padding": 50,
    "title_below_image": true,
    "background": "./background.jpg",
    "show_complete_frame": true
  },
  "data": []
} 
```
Note that this references a custom font and a background image. I'll need to store both of these within the `screenshots` directory, so I'll do this now:
<!-- Add assets in Finder -->


## Per language settings
<!-- Show .strings files section of documenation for visual interest here. -->
Now that I've specified my project-wide framing settings, the second piece of this puzzle is to add any per-language or per-scene captions and settings.
Since these are language-specific, the right place to do this is within language-specific folders — in our case, US English and German.
Within each language folder, `frameit` lets us add Xcode-standard `.strings` files, fitting nicely with standard app translation workflows. The `.strings` format requires that its first line must be left blank, then takes the format "name" = "value".


I'll start by adding a  `title.strings` file in my English US folder:
```

"1Launch" = "Make Training Fun!";
"2HowItWorks" = "As Simple as ABC!";
"3BecauseScience" = "Because… Science!";
"4Challenge" = "Fun Challenges!";
"5Reward" = "You Both Get Treats!";
```
And then — with serious apologies to any native German speakers — I'll do the same in our `de-DE` folder:
```

"1Launch" = "Macht aus dem training Spaß!";
"2HowItWorks" = "So einfach wie ABC!";
"3BecauseScience" = "Weil… Wissenschaft!";
"4Challenge" = "Spaß Herausforderungen!";
"5Reward" = "Sie bekommen beide Leckereien!";
```
Note that the name of each name|value pair acts as a filter, letting `frameit` match each entry to a specific screenshot. Because of this, the order of these entries doesn't matter — only that each name entered uniquely matches one of your screenshot scenes.

## Putting it all Together
Alright. Let's take a look at what we get for this effort:
```bash
fastlane sandbox
```


<!-- show English results in Gallery view -->
With our `Framefile` and `title.strings` files in place, our framed photos are now inset within a backgrounders image. Each scene gets a unique title, and …
<!-- switch to German language folder -->
…each language gets its its own captions. Other than my horrible German, nice.


# Conclusion
**[Slide 7]** 
As you can see, `frameit` is a powerful and flexible tool that can transform your raw screenshots into complete, App Store-ready images. 
Because of the deep device and language-driven structure of app screenshots, frameit does take more setup than most fastlane tools. But this setup isn't difficult, and your efforts will be more than repaid in very short order.
**[Slide 8]** 
In the next episode, you'll learn how to complete the cycle and deliver your framed and customized screenshots directly to the App Store, via an action that's aptly named… `deliver`. See you there…