# Introduction
Now that fastlane `gym` has streamlined the process of creating distribution-ready builds, it's time to take a closer look at the process of distributing your apps to your test users.
# Lecture: 
## Without Fastlane
Once again, we'll start with a flyover of the traditional process of distributing an app via TestFlight in a browser. 
**[Slide ]** Show sequence of screens, maybe with sound effect to emphasize each manual step
We start by logging in to App Store Connect, navigating to MyApps, select a team and then the desired team app, selecting the TestFlight tab, and finally, clicking Test Information. 
We enter and manually submit the needed info.
Then we need to manually submit a build, either via Xcode or App Store Connect. Either way, there are several more manual steps to click through, along with lots of thumb twiddling to be done.
Once we've completed these steps and our upload is visible within App Store Connect, we can add internal testers. Back in App Store Connect, we select `App Store Connect Users`, and then manually add and manage internal users one by one.
If we want to add external testers here, then we select "All Testers", create or select groups, then enter a CSV file we've manually created, or enter and invite external users one by one. Then we select which build we want each external group to test and enter testing information for each group. There's lots more manual steps here, of course.
No matter how you slice it, that's a lot of typing, pointing, typing. Even more, there's an awful lot of time here spent simply waiting for refreshes. To be fair, Apple is clearly working to make this process better, and announced a new App Store Connect API at WWDC 2018. At the time of writing, this is an encouraging work in progress, and the fastlane team is actively monitoring its potential uses. 
No matter how we slice it, though, this is most definitely a time-consuming and fussy process just waiting to be streamlined. 
We'll see how to do just that in the next episode. See you there…



