# Introduction
We've done a lot in this section: 
- We've checked our metadata to make sure it doesn't violate foreseeable App Store Rules with `precheck`. 
- We've created a complete matrix of screenshots for all screens, devices, and languages we support thanks to `snapshot`.
- And we've framed each screenshot with localized titles, custom font, color, and background, resizing each to Apple's specs.
It's time to deliver close the loop and deliver all this to the App Store using… `fastlane deliver`!
`deliver` is a workhorse. It's designed to effortlessly handle the steps otherwise required to manually upload your archived app with Xcode or Application Loader, enter and submit your app metadata — again manually — to App Store connect, submit your build for review, and enter export compliance info. 
# Lecture
`deliver` once again follows the usual fastlane conventions, including having its documentation page at the expected [https://docs.fastlane.tools/actions/deliver/#deliver][1]. 
## Command Line
We'll start by running
```bash
fastlane deliver init
```
This creates a deeply useful  `metadata` folder 
<!-- Show folder in Finder -->
This folder is cleanly structured, and contains numerous text files, each corresponding to key App Store metadata fields. With this in place, you can edit all these fields — including localized variants — at your leisure, and let `deliver` validate then upload them for you. That's **much** nicer than entering them all manually via web forms, and a whole lot easier to maintain and upgrade.
With this in place, I'll run:
```bash
fastlane deliver
```
In this basic form, `deliver` presents an overview of the metadata and screenshots, and on our approval, upload them (but not our .ipa file) to the App Store. 
We can include an .ipa and also submit it directly for review with:
```bash
fastlane deliver --ipa "my-app.ipa" --submit_for_review
```
We could also download previously uploaded screenshots and metadata using:
```bash
fastlane deliver download_screenshots
```
## Lane Use
Obviously, though, deliver is designed to shine in lanes, where it can complete a chain of build processes. It's a workhorse that's born to enable continuous delivery for your app. 
Basic lane invocation is as simple as it gets:
```ruby
lane :a_lane do
  ...
  deliver
  ...
end
```
This functions exactly as you saw the basic form in the command line do a moment ago.
 As usual, you can include parameters to tune and add functionality. For example, I can include an .ipa for upload, immediately submit it for review, skip the confirmation web page, and specify a team with:
```ruby
lane :a_lane do
  ...   
  deliver(
    ipa: "./Export_iTunesConnect/ChewChewTrain.ipa",
    submit_for_review: true,
    force: true,
    team_name: "my_team"
  )
  ...
end
```
Given the possible permutations of App Store submissions, you won't be surprised that `deliver` offers a lengthy array of Fastfile options. As usual, you can explore these with either `fastlane actions deliver` or in the documentation page. 
But that said, part of the beauty of `deliver` is how much it, well, *delivers*, without a lot of fuss. It's a truly impressive tool, and a core part of what fastlane hum.
# Conclusion
`deliver` completes the circuit we've been working on in this section, transporting your carefully assembled metadata, screenshots, and .ipa's to the App Store. In the next episode, it'll be your turn to put `deliver` to work in your own projects. I'll see you there!


[1]:	https://docs.fastlane.tools/actions/deliver/#deliver