# Intro
In this episode you'll install fastlane and initialize it for our course's sample project. 
**[Slide 1]** 
Before we install fastlane itself, we'll make sure the tools it relies on are installed on your development mac. Throughout this section, I'll ask you to pause the video as needed at each step. Our goal is to make *sure* your fastlane environment is good to be by the end of this episode.
# Demo
## Xcode Command-line Tools
First up are the Xcode Command Line Tools. I'll assume you're using the most recent production of Xcode (at the time of this recording, this is Xcode 10.1. If you aren't, I strongly encourage you to download the most recent version of Xcode from the App Store or developer.apple.com before continuing. 
Open your Terminal app and run:
```bash
xcode-select --install
```
If you get an "error" telling your command line tools are already installed, you're good to go. Otherwise, this will take some time to install these essential tools for you.
Either way, Run the following command:
```bash
xcode-select --print-path
```
So long as you see the path to your most recent copy of `Xcode`, your `Xcode` tools good to go.
## Homebrew
Next, you'll install — or update — `Homebrew`. If you're not familiar with it, `Homebrew` is a fantastic command line utility — also implemented in `Ruby` — that's a portal to a vast world of free, open-source languages and command-line developer utilities. We'll use it in throughout this course. 
Again in Terminal, run:
```bash
brew -v
```
if you don't get a version number back, you'll need to install Homebrew. To do this, run this command. Be sure to press `Enter` when you're prompted:
```bash
/usr/bin/ruby -e "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/master/install)"
```
Now, whether or not you just installed Homebrew, run:
```bash
brew update
brew doctor
```
These commands make sure your version of Homebrew is up to date, and that it's running smoothly. If `brew doctor` reports any issues, take a moment to follow its recommendations to resolve them before continuing.
## Ruby
`fastlane` runs on Ruby, which is preinstalled on modern macs. To confirm that Ruby is installed on your mac, run:
```bash
ruby -v
```
If you get back a value of version 2.3.7 or greater, you're good to go.
Here's a quick Pro Tip: The version of Ruby preinstalled in macOS Mojave is currently v2.5. If you use this, everything in this course will work fine, but be aware that you'll see some `fastlane` warnings about this version here and there throughout this course. It's your choice whether you leave well enough alone, or choose to install a newer version of Ruby in a moment.
And, of course, if you're a dedicated Rubyist, you'll likely use one of Ruby's several version managers and have several Ruby versions installed already. Then you're more than good to go.
Now, if you either didn't get back version 2.3.7 or higher, or if you'd like to upgrade to a newer version of Ruby anyway, run the following command to install Ruby via Homebrew:
```bash
brew install ruby
```
When this installation is complete, you'll have both the default *and* new Ruby versions installed on your mac. You'll need to update your shell configuration file to point to the new version. 
Your specific shell configuration file can vary. Mine is  `~/.profile`), but this could also be `~/.bash_profile` or something else if you prefer another shell. Once you've located your shell configuration file, open it in a text editor and add the following line to update your path:
```bash
export PATH="/usr/local/opt/ruby/bin:$PATH"
```
Save this file, but leave it open, since you'll be updating it again in a moment.
Last, to complete your Ruby installation, run… 
```bash
gem install bundler
ruby -v
```
When this finishes, you should see your shiny new version of Ruby reported, and we can check this one off.
## Git
We'll also use `git` extensively in this course. This should already be installed on your mac. To confirm this, run:
```bash
git --version
```
If for any reason you don't get back a version number, run this command to install git, once again via Homebrew:
```bash
brew install git
```
# Interlude
## Troubleshooting
But before moving on, I want to mention that odd things can and do happen in the CLI. If you weren't able to install any of the tools just now, don't panic. 
I'd recommend first reviewing any feedback you may have gotten in Terminal. You might, for example, learn that a parent directory has easily fixable permission issues blocking you.
If that doesn't help, I'd also recommend checking the dedicated resources for Homebrew, Ruby, and Git for common troubleshooting tips. 
And last, don't forget resources like StackOverflow and good old web searches. 
# Demo
## fastlane
OK, We've ready for the main event, and it's time to install `fastlane` itself!
Fastlane is commonly installed either via Homebrew or using Ruby's `gem install`. Quite unfortunately, it turns out that the Homebrew installation isn't fully compatible with tools we'll use in Section 5 of our course. So, I'll ask you to begin by taking a moment to make sure you don't have the problematic version of fastlane installed.
To do this, run:
```bash
brew cask uninstall fastlane
```
You'll most likely get back a message that `fastlane` isn't installed. Otherwise this command will remove the potentially troublesome version of fastlane for you (be sure to respond "yes" if prompted to remove additional components).
Now, install our desired version of fastlane by running:
```bash
sudo gem install fastlane
```
When this completes, you'll once again need to update your shell configuration, which you left open awhile ago. Back in this file, add this line to ensure fastlane is in your PATH:
```bash
export PATH="/usr/local/lib/ruby/gems/2.5.0/bin:$PATH"
```
Save your changes and close the file. Finally, run:
```bash
fastlane -v
```
If you see a fastlane version number and a spiffy rocket ship, you're all set. Nicely done!
# Interlude
## Chew Chew Train
Now that you've installed fastlane and its dependencies, let's meet the iOS project we'll be using throughout this course. 
**[Slide 2]**  **[Slide 3]** **[Slide 4]** **[Slide 5]** **[Slide 6]** 
<!-- Editor: Please show these 5 slides spaced evenly through the next ¶. Thanks! -->
Our sample iOS project is a very simple iPhone app called `Chew Chew Train`. It's a warm-hearted app that takes a fresh spin on dog training. It's central premise is that every dog — and every dog's *human* — should get a nice, tasty treat every time you ask her or him to do anything… regardless of the result. We'll be using this app as our fastlane guinea pig throughout this course. You probably shouldn't use it in real life, tho…
**[Slide 7]** 
If you haven't already, download the materials for this course now, and then open the project a take a look around to get acquainted. As you'll see, this is a very simple app, and we'll use this mostly as an object to automate throughout our course. However, as you'll soon see, we'll be doing a good deal of development with this project — just with our automation meta code instead of with Xcode as usual.
A quick note: We'll build up our project step by step throughout this course. You'll be able to work cumulatively from episode to episode. But each episode also contains a complete set of "Beginning" and "Ending" assets showing our project at the start and completion of each episode. Feel free to grab a fresh copy of the "Beginning" folder of any episode and keep going with that if that's helpful.
# Demo: Initializing fastlane in our project
You've installed fastlane and our sample project. There's one last step to complete: fastlane needs to be initialized for each project since, much like git, it operates on a per-project basis.
In your `Terminal` app, navigate to the project's root directory
```bash
cd <directory path>
```
…and then run:
```bash
fastlane init
```
The `fastlane` initialization script begins by analyzing your project. It then offers you a choice of starting configurations. We'll choose `4-manual`, because we'll be building up everything from scratch. Do this now, and be sure to tap `Enter` when prompted. 
Great! Fastlane is now initialized for your project. Run
```bash
 open .
```
…to open your project in a Finder window. As you can see, there's a new `Gemfile` in your project root directory, containing fastlane configuration settings. But the main payload is the new fastlane folder. 
<!-- open fastlane folder in Finder -->
This folder has been initialized with an `Appfile` and, most importantly, a shiny new `Fastfile`. `Fastfile` will be the star of this show: it's where you'll create all your custom lanes throughout this course.
# Conclusion
**[Slide 8]** 
Nice work! You've taken care of all the preliminaries, and we're ready to go now. Take a moment to give yourself a well-earned pat on the back (assuming you're more coordinated than I am :) 
In the next episode, we'll start working with fastlane itself. See you there…
