# Introduction
As you've seen, fastlane actions can be run either directly in the CLI or via Fastfile lanes. You might be wondering: When should you use one or the other? 
# Lecture
**[Slide ]** Code examples shown inline
You've seen this pattern several times now: A fastlane action can be run directly in the command line:
```bash
 fastlane sigh -a com.razeware.com -u jimmie_pearseed@me.com -q "myProfile.mobileprovision" 
```
or in a lane:
```ruby
lane :deep_breath do
  fastlane(
    app_identifier: "com.razeware.com",
    username: "jimmie_pearseed@me.com",
    provisioning_name: "myProfile.mobileprovision"
  )
end
```
This is great. But it can also lead to confusion about what form to use when, and how best to store project constants we'd like to share across these environments.
## Which When?
First: Which form should you use when?
**[Slide ]** ad hoc imagery TBD
There's of course no absolutes here. But generally, you'll want to use the command line for simple or one off actions. The advantage of the command line is that you don't need to take the time to set up a special lane. And there are all kinds of things you can do in the command line that simply make more sense to do as you need to. 
**[Slide ]** factory imagery TBD 
On the other hand, lanes are built to support repeated chains of actions. Obviously, this is an immediate time saver: Typing in `fastlane my_workflow` is a ton faster than entering several consecutive CLI actions with inscrutable and hard-to-remember options.
But more importantly, lanes enforce consistency. As you continue building your lanes in the rest of this course, you'll increasingly see them take a form mirroring the key Development, Test Build and Distribution, and Delivery phases our course is focused on. 
**[Slide ]** Multiple team members doing the same thing
The big idea here is that once these lanes are tuned to fit *your* team's workflows, every member of your team can simply run a standardized action and know that they can't forget a step or do something in a way that differs from other team members. 
That kind of consistency and repeatability is the basis of team efficiency and code quality. And it of course paves the way to full continuous integration practices. So from this perspective, I'd suggest using ad hoc CLI commands for unique things you need to do that don't directly other team members and assets, and using lanes for all things that affect your core team workflows and assets.
## What Where?
**[Slide ]** 3 options
Next, where should we store project settings and data? Fastlane provides at least 3 layers for this:
- Manually enter this information in an ad hoc command
- Enter this information in a lane
- Create a configuration file (such as the Appfile you've already set up).
**[Slide ]** Slide Supporting 3 points
Which is best depends on your goals:
- In line entry gives you maximum flexibility, but is naturally prone to all kinds of one off errors and idiosyncrasies: Use these solely for one off kinds of tasks.
- In-lane entry is fast, and provides team-wide consistency. Still, there are some downsides:
	- You can end up repeating yourself (for example, entering account properties in multiple lanes), though this can be easily remedied with lane flow and/or variables.
	- As your lanes grow, you can end up with a massive Fastfile (not unlike Massive View Controller issues in iOS development).
	- Ad hoc actions won't benefit from these settings. 
- Configuration files keep project information cleanly separated. And they're accessible to both lanes *and* ad hoc command line actions. 
As a general guideline, I'd recommend storing settings in a dedicated configuration file if the action supports it. You'll soon see several more examples of these, including in the next episode's challenge.
## Integration
**[Slide ]**  Don't Cross the Streams
Fastlane also makes it possible to blur the lines between command line and lane use.
For starters, and as you know well by now, fastlane's bread and butter is calling lanes from the command line:
```ruby
fastlane my_lane
```
You can also try out an action without setting up a lane for it, using the special `run` command:
```bash
fastlane run some_action a_param:"Text Value" another_param:true
```
This can also be useful in rare cases when an action isn't designed to be run directly in the CLI. 
You also have the ability within lanes to directly invoke shell commands and retrieve their results:
```bash
  lane :you do
    you = sh "whoami"
    UI.header "Congratulations on being " + you
  end
```
Being able to call shell commands directly in lanes is highly useful. As your lanes get more ambitious, this can fill in edge case gaps where an action may not exist for some action you'd like to take as part of a workflow. It can also be useful in rare cases where the lane form of a fastlane action doesn't provide functionality the command line variant.
## What are my Lanes?
As your lanes grow and new team members are getting up to speed with workflows you've defined, it's natural to want to know at a glance what lanes are available for a given project.
Fastlane makes it easy to get a compact list:
**[Slide ]** Command plus output
```bash
fastlane list
```
As well as an annotated one:
**[Slide ]** Command plus output
```bash
fastlane lanes
```
`lanes` is designed to display a description for each lane. To do this, you simply use the `desc` keyword with a lane description in your Fastfile:
```bash
desc "Do some amazing stuff"
lane :i_so_rock do
  # pat head and rub tummy simultaneously
end
```
There's one more helpful way to view lane documentation. `fastlane` also generates a README.md file containing all your lanes.  
One last thing: You'll likely have helper lanes you don't want to be called directly. To prevent these types of lanes from being included in either `list` or `lanes` output, declare them with `private_lane`:
**[Slide ]** Private example
```ruby
private_lane :some_helper_action do
  # i am very shy
end 
```
Be aware that you can't call private lanes directly from the command line, so only mark lanes private if you don't need this functionality.
## Conclusion
As you can see, fastlane provides you with tools to address virtually any edge case imaginable. And just as importantly, it gives you a wide array of tools to help you keep your lanes DRY and cleanly documented
In the next episode, it'll be your turn to add these techniques to your own lanes. See you there!