# Intro
In this episode, you'll meet **sigh**, the fastlane action aimed at easing the creation and management of provisioning profiles. Let's dive right in…
# Lecture
So far, we've looked at two pillars of App Store security: registering an app, and obtaining a valid signing certificate. Now it's time to address provisioning profiles. These can be a source of confusion for many developers, so we'll start with a quick review.
## Identifying Devices
**[Slide ]** Puzzle piece
In Apple's security schema, it's not sufficient to ensure that an app comes from an identified developer and is in a pristine state. In the Development Cycle we're currently concerned with, we still need to address two more puzzle pieces:
First, the UDID of every device on which the app is to be run must be registered with Apple (either explicitly or implicitly by Xcode). 
Second, Apple must create a provisioning profile, and this must be distributed along with the app to each device the in-development app will be run on.
## The Role of Profiles
Super! But… what exactly is a provisioning profile? Glad you asked!
**[Slide ]** License to Kill?
You can think of this as providing a blanket license authorizing a single code-signed app to be installed on one or more authorized developers on one or more authorized iOS devices.  
Specifically, a *development* provisioning profile includes:
- the app's Bundle ID (uniquely identifying a single app)
- the app's Signing Certificate (uniquely identifying the app's code-signed state)
- a list of authorized Entitlements (we'll introduce these later)
- a list of authorized Device ID's
- a Distribution Certificate public key
**[Slide ]**  License or handshake image
## Types of Profiles
 Like Certificates, Profiles come in 4 delicious flavors. Here's a quick overview
### Development Team
**[Slide ]** Development Profiles
The "Development Team Profile" handles early phases of an app lifecycle — in-team development, running in simulator and developer iOS devices. The main thing to remember about Development Team Profiles is that they carry a complete list of every authorized iOS device for testing. If a device isn't in this list, the in-development app can't be installed or tested on it, period.
### Ad Hoc
**[Slide ]** Ad Hoc Profiles
Ad Hoc Profiles come into play in the beta testing and distribution phase of an app. They provide a way to distribute an app to a known, finite set of iOS devices outside the App Store. If you distribute an app to testers via a third party testing service, for example, you'll be using an Ad Hoc profile to make this possible.
### Enterprise
**[Slide ]** Enterprise Profiles
Enterprise Provisioning Profiles provide a way for larger enterprises to distribute in-house applications to enterprise-approved devices. 
### App Store
**[Slide ]** App Store Profiles
Finally, the App Store Profile comes into play when you publish your app to the Apple App Store. Obviously, at this point you can't possibly know the UDID's of every device your app will be authorized to run on. In fact, you want every device in the world to install your app, right? 
In this case, Apple itself takes over, resigning your app with its own signing certificate and issuing a matching Provisioning Profile. From here, App Store provisioning is used to ensure that your in-Store app is delivered in pristine, untampered state to each user who downloads or purchases your app.
## sigh
`sigh` is both the name of the fastlane action, and a nicely geeky fastlane pun, based on the infinite number of sighs historically heard as iOS developers everywhere attempt to manually manage their provisioning profiles.
Once again, we'll start with its documentation page predictably at [https://docs.fastlane.tools/actions/sigh/#sigh][1]. And again, the same documentation and usage conventions we've been learning will follow through here as expected: alias at the top for your info, summary at top, command line usage next, and finally, in-lane usage.
`sigh` is designed to work hand in hand with `cert`, which you met in the last episode. It supports all four types of provisioning profiles and contains comprehensive tools to create, download, renew, and repair profiles. 
# Demo
## Command line
Let's try it out. Once again, basic usage is predictably:
```bash
fastlane sigh
```
I'm prompted for my Apple ID and team as before, and also this time, the bundle ID (aka unique identifier) of my app. This makes sense, as `sigh's` goal is to create a provisioning profile for my specific app. `sigh` silently logs into the Developer Portal, fetches my provisioning profiles, checks if any are valid for my bundle ID, gets my Development Certificates from my keychain, sees if any provisioning profiles match these (and if not, creates a new one), then downloads and installs the valid provisioning file. 
Not sure about you, but I really like letting fastlane do this for me :)
OK, let's see what else we can do in the command lane:
```bash
fastlane sigh --help
```
If you'd like to get a better sense of any action, you can use the --verbose option. I'll also include info so I'm not prompted
```bash
fastlane sigh -u bschick1@mac.com -l "Brian Schick" -a com.razeware.ChewChewTrain --verbose
```
Nice… now I get a better sense of how it interacts with my keychain.
If I'd like to see all my provisioning profiles, I can use the `manage` command. I'll add the handy `-e` option to automatically clear any expired profiles at the same time:
```bash
fastlane sigh manage -e
```
I could also repair and resign profiles just as easily.
## Lanes
On to in-lane use, once again scrolling to the bottom of the action's documentation page to see my options.
Once again, I can invoke `sigh` in a lane as simply as:
```ruby
  lane :this_lane_is_my_lane do
    ...
    sigh
  end 
```
This is equivalent to running the simple form in the CLI. However, since lanes are for automation without our intervention, we definitely don't want to be prompted for our info in this context. We can quickly fix this by adding the appropriate params:
```ruby
  lane :this_lane_is_your_lane do
    sigh(
      username: "bschick1@mac.com",
      team_name: "Brian Schick",
      app_identifier: "com.razeware.ChewChewTrain"
    )
  end 
```
And now this runs silently. Sweet!
# Summary
That wraps up our coverage of sigh. As you can see, each individual fastlane action follows consistent patterns, making it easy to quickly grab and use a new one. You'll soon find these predictable patterns to be your best friends.
Now that you've seen how cert and sigh work, it'll be your turn in the next episode to add them both to your first lane. I'll see you there…

[1]:	https://docs.fastlane.tools/actions/sigh/#sigh