# Introduction
It's an exciting milestone in an app's lifecycle: You've taken your app from idea to functional, and it's time to get it into the hands of beta testers. Life is great! 
Except… As you think of the manual legwork that'll be needed to get your app provisioned and submitted and all your testers on-boarded, your heart sinks just a bit.
# Lecture
## Manual Build Steps
Here's a quick review of the conventional steps needed at this point:
**[Slide 1]** 
To start, you'd need to register all your test devices on the Apple Developer Portal. We get a pass on this one, since we've already addressed device registration with `deliver`. Onwards!
**[Slide 2]** 
You'd then create an archive, remembering to manually bump your build number. Then you stand by and cross your fingers while Xcode validates your app and all your distribution certificates and assets. 
**[Slide 3]** 
Then it's on to Xcode's Organizer, where you'd choose either to distribute your app with Test Flight or a third party service. You'd also choose a development team and account, if your app is Universal, and select any on-demand resources to be uploaded, including a potential manifest file for app-thinning. Eventually, Xcode would create your distributable code-signed binaries. 
**[Slide 4]** 
Oh, and you'd still need to invite, enroll and get your app into the hands of each of your beta testers.  Didn't you used to… what was it called… *code*?
## Introducing Gym
That's our problem space in this section. I'm sure you won't be surprised to hear that `fastlane` has a solution waiting in the wings.
**[Slide 5]** 
We'll begin with `gym`, fastlane's action to automate the process of building your app for your selected distribution method. Let's take a closer look:
# Demo
## Command Line
<!-- Show Gym documentation in browser -->
`gym` follows `fastlane’s` standard conventions nicely, with its documentation at [../actions/gym][1] as expected. And once again, basic command line use is beautifully simple.  


<!-- Switch to terminal and run this -->
```bash
fastlane gym
```
<!-- Don't speak while command is completing. EDITOR: Please speed up lengthy in-terminal feedback as needed. Thanks. -->
You'll find `gym` takes longer to run than the other actions you've seen so far. This makes sense, because under the hood, it's leveraging `xcodebuild` and other command line tools to build your archive, check its validity, and then assemble your distributable binaries.


## Gym options
As usual, we can go beyond basic use with arguments. You could specify a scheme and require a clean-and-build like this:
```bash
fastlane gym --scheme "[]ChewChewTrain" --clean
```
And as you'd expect, further command line options let you do much more tuning, like specifying  your export method, output directory, manifest file and thinning options, as well as whether or not to include symbols and bitcode. But we'll move along briskly to lane usage, since lanes are where we'll do all our real work.


## Lane Use
Turning to use in lanes, the good news is that use here is very straightforward as well. You can invoke gym in a lane as simply as this: 
```bash
lane :sandbox do
  gym
end
```
As usual in lanes, you can easily specify gym options with parameters:
```bash
lane :sandbox do
  gym(
    scheme: "ChewChewTrain",
    output_directory: "build_AdHoc",
    build_method: "ad-hoc"
  )
end
```


## Gymfile
But even better than entering configuration settings in lanes is placing them in a project-wide configuration file. And you can make this happen simply by running:
```
fastlane gym init
```
This command scaffolds a new Ruby `Gymfile` configuration file in your project `fastlane` subdirectory. 
<!-- Run open fastlane to show in Finder -->
As with other `fastlane` config files, settings here effectively serve as project-wide defaults applying to `gym` in both the command line and lanes, unless you specifically override them.
<!-- Double click to open file in editor -->
I'll configure my project `Gymfile` to always require a clean and build and to use my ChewChewTrain scheme. Since my build method and output directory location will change depending on the task, I'll then specify these in specific lanes:
```ruby
clean(true)
scheme "ChewChewTrain"
```
You’ll set up your own Gymfile in the next Challenge episode.


## Pro Tip
Last, here's a Pro Tip: `gym` is tasked with working with a lot of very different pieces, and many of these are completely outside its control, including the App Store Connect and Developer Portal API's, and Apple's dynamic app acceptance criteria. Because of this,  it’s possible for these pieces to get misaligned, causing lots of red text to fly across your screen, and stopping you in your tracks until the specific issue is identified and addressed. 
If this ever happens to you, 90% of the problem is simply discovering what the specific blocking issue is. Fastlane has a helpful "Debugging code signing issues" page that's a good starting point (at /codesigning/troubleshooting).
Beyond this, here's how I approach odd problems with `gym`:
1.  Start by reviewing fastlane's inline Terminal feedback. Fastlane does its best to point you to the specific issue or the relevant portions of log files. 
2. Try running the same command with the verbose option enabled.
2. Check out fastlane "Debugging Codesigning 
3. Do a quick check to see if Apple has recently changed any policies that might prevent your app from validating.
4. See if an archive build and validate in Xcode reveals any problems.
5. If nothing else helps, consider nuking all your code signing credentials and creating new ones with match. 


# Conclusion
`gym` is a that rare combination of a serious workhorse that's both easy to use and highly configurable. It lays the foundation for everything `fastlane` can do to help improve your test build and distribution workflow.
In the next section you'll head to the `gym` yourself, as you create and then customize a new build lane. See you there!

[1]:	https://docs.fastlane.tools/actions/gym