# Introduction
In this episode, we'll add automatic project documentation to our fastlane workflow.
# Lecture
As we're automating more and more of our developer actions, it makes sense to consider integrating documentation into this scheme. 
As we've already seen with git, unit test, and lint integration, by doing this, we guarantee that it happens every time we build, and no matter which team member is driving. That's especially critical with documentation, since out of date docs are often worse than nothing at all.
# Demo
## Basics
**[Slide ]** Jazzy Logo + homepage [https://github.com/realm/jazzy][1].
We'll leverage another Realm open source tool for this task, a soulful documentation hero that goes by the name of `Jazzy`. `Jazzy` supports Swift as well as Objective-C. 
You might expect that we need to start by installing Jazzy. In this case, however, the first time fastlane's jazzy action runs, it will install a copy of the jazzy gem.
Although it's possible to run jazzy in the command line, we'll focus solely on lane use. Basic usage is as simple as you'd expect:
```ruby
lane :document do
  jazzy
end
```
I'll go ahead and run this lane:
```
fastlane document
```
## Configuration
The lane completes successfully, and Jazzy runs xcodebuild, parses our project files then builds our documentation. 
<!-- Open docs/index.html in browser -->
But when I view the documentation, there's no "there" there yet. This is because I haven't yet configured Jazzy for our specific project. I'll need to manually add a Jazzy configuration file.
You can get an exhaustive listing of all possible configuration file settings by running:
```
jazzy --help config
```
(A quick note: Be aware that if you run the raw `jazzy` command in the CLI like this, you're actually running the raw Jazzy executable, while when you invoke `jazzy` in a lane, you're of course running the fastlane action of that name).
As you can see, Jazzy offers a ton of configuration power so we can determine exactly the the style, scope, and depth of your documentation. For our present purposes, I'll create a very simple configuration file for our sample project
```yaml
author: Chew Chew Doggies
output: ../Documentation
min_acl: internal
```
… and save it to `./fastlane/jazzy.yaml`.  With this in place, I'll update my lane to point our action to this configuration file:
```ruby
lane :document do
  jazzy config: "./fastlane/jazzy.yaml"
end
```
…then run our action again:
```
fastlane document
```
This time, my output is stored in the `Documentation` folder as requested, and I can now see my main project classes and structs, then drill down to their methods.
By default, Jazzy only documents Swift public and open declarations, and since our simple sample project contained only the default `internal` scope, I needed to set the `min_acl` property in `Jazzy.yaml` for everything to appear. 
Our sample project hasn't done anything to prepare for documentation, so it's really nice to see as much information as exists here already. To resolve the persistent "Undocumented" messages at the top of each declaration, I'd need to go into my project and add documentation comments. I'll quickly do this for a few class methods now, then run our lane again…
<!-- Add /// info for a few types -->
…And when our updated documentation completes, you can see the new documentation comments just added. Nice!
## Advanced Tuning
As you'd expect, there's a vast deal more you can do to tune Jazzy for your specific project needs. You can choose multiple themes, take full control over exactly what gets documented, and much more. The Jazzy Github repo is your best source for more info about this.
## Integrating with Production Lanes
I'll wrap things up by adding documentation to our `build_appstore` lane. I'll simply add a call to our `document` lane after our build and commit processes have completed:
```ruby
lane :build_appstore__git do
    sync_all_appstore
    ensure_git_status_clean
    ensure_bit_branch(branch: "staging")
    git_pull
    scan
    lint
    increment_build_number
    gym(
      scheme: "ChewChewTrain",
      output_directory: "build_AppStore",
      export_method: "app-store"
    )
    commit_version_bump(
      force: true,
      message: "Version bumped by fastlane"
    )
    add_git_tag(grouping: "fastlane")
    push_to_git_remote
    document
  end
```
… and now every time anyone on my team does an App Store build, the project documentation will automatically update. I'd add my new `Documentation` folder to source control to ensure that updated documentation automatically up to date for everyone on my team.
# Conclusion
Adding automatic project documentation puts the icing on the cake of our work so far in this final section. Our production lanes are becoming powerful indeed, and I think you can see how much additional value `fastlane` adds when you use it beyond the App Store ecosystem. 
In the next section, you'll see how to yet more power to your production lanes as we add by integrating automatic Slack notifications. See you there… 

[1]:	https://github.com/realm/jazzy