
# Introduction
As you saw in the previous section, registering your App is an integral part of obtaining development provisioning profiles, and we couldn't use `sigh` or `match` without first registering our app with Apple. 
We did this quickly previously. In this episode, we'll flesh out our understanding of this essential process. You'll also meet `produce`, fastlane's action for making registering your app — and your app's extended services — a snap.
# Lecture
## Registration Basics
**[Slide ]** App Registration Purpose
To quickly review, the basic action of registering an app is an essential component of App development provisioning because it provides a way to:
- Ensure that your app's bundle ID is unique throughout Apple's ecosystems.
- Obtain development provisioning profiles enabling your specific app to be registered to run on specific authorized devices.
**[Slide ]** Registering an app on the Developer Portal
Conventionally, you register your app via Apple's Developer Portal. There are no big surprises here, and the web site is reasonably convenient to work with, as you saw when you manually registered your app in the previous section. 
## Produce
**[Slide ]** Produce Documentation page
While the manual registration process is workable, you won't be surprised to learn that fastlane wants to make it better for you. And once again, there's a dedicated action for this process, called `produce`.  
**[Slide ]** 
Consistent with other actions, produce documentation lives at [https://docs.fastlane.tools/actions/produce/][1].
As you can immediately see, `produce` is a multifaceted tool, and we'll be exploring aspects of it throughout this section. Right now, we'll focus on its simplest use case.
# Demo
## Basic Produce Usage
In Terminal — inside my project directory — I'll simply run:
```bash
fastlane produce
```
Since I didn't specify them in my command, I'm prompted to enter my Apple ID, then to choose a team. Then I'm prompted to enter my Bundle ID, and a friendly name for my app. Fastlane verifies that my information is valid and that my bundle ID is unique, and then automatically registers my app as a new app in App Store Connect, reporting back its newly assigned unique ID.
To confirm this, we can quickly open up App Store Connect in our browser. Sure enough, our app is newly registered with Apple. That's was a lot faster than manually registering an app, and less error prone too.
## Getting more info
As we've seen for our other actions, we can get more info about command line use by running
```bash
fastlane produce --help
```
I'll focus on the "create" options right now. If I'd like to run produce in the command line without being prompted for my Apple ID, team, and app info I can run:
```bash
fastlane produce \
--username bschick1@mac.com \
--app_identifier com.razeware.ChewChewTrain \
--app_name "Chew Chew Train" \
--team_name "Brian Schick" \
--itc_team_name "Brian Schick"
```
Note that my Developer Portal team is formally separate from my App Store Connect (formerly iTunes Connect) team, and so I enter both `team_name` and `itc_team_name`. Under the hood, these 2 different values correspond to 2 distinct calls `produce` makes on our behalf, first to the Apple Developer Center, and then to App Store Connect. 
Last, to get info about using `produce` within lanes, I can run
```bash
fastlane actions produce
```
in Terminal. As we've seen before, this gives us a great summary of how we can use produce in our lanes, and also points us back to `produce`'s documentation page to round everything out. Sweet!
# Conclusion
That wraps up our intro to the basics of app registration with `produce`. In the next episode, it'll be your turn to put `produce` into action in your own lanes. See you there

[1]:	https://docs.fastlane.tools/actions/produce/