# Intro
In the last two episodes you've learned about team-based code signing and fastlane `match`. Now it's your turn to try our match by adding a new team development lane to your Fastfile.
# Introducing the Challenge
Here are the details of your challenge:
- First, update  your `Matchfile` to always set `force_for_new_devices` too true.
- Then in your `Fastfile`, create a new `sync_all_development` lane
- Inside your lane, invoke match to generate, encrypt, and store new team signing assets in your git repo and your local mac. 
- Ensure that match is configured for development, and that it will renew its provisioning profiles if the developer portal device count has changed.
Now on to your advanced challenge:
Fastlane contains a helper action designed to be paired with `match`, called `register_devices`. It's purpose is to provide teams a single place to enter all team devices, so that provisioning profiles will always be in sync with all team devices.
Your challenge is to find `register_devices'` documentation and:
- Create an additional new `sync_device_info` lane
- Add `register_devices` to it
- Now the fun part: Find and add the parameter to include a list of iOS devices inline. You'll see that this parameter takes a Ruby hash, which is similar functionally to a Swift dictionary, but uses fat arrows instead of colons. Connect one or two devices to Xcode to get their UDID's, and add them to your lane.
OK. Pause the video now and give the challenge a try. Remember to consult `match's` and `sync_device_info's` lane-specific documentation for the parameters you'll need, and most of all, have fun! I'll see you when you're done.
# Pause for Challenge
# Demo: Challenge Answers
## Basic Challenge
Welcome back! Let's review this…
I start by opening Matchfile and adding the line 
```ruby
force_for_new_devices(true)
```
One thing to watch out for here is that since this is a method call instead of a parameter, we enclose `true` in parenthesis, rather than using the `param` : `value` format we do within lanes. 
I'll save and close the file, then open Fastfile and create a new lane
```ruby
lane :sync_all_development do

end
```
I add a line to call match. Now we add to need to add parameters to specify development mode and to force updates on device count changes. Or do we?
OK, I was a tad deceptive in my setup, but I had good intentions :]. I wanted you to make sure you're clear how your configuration files affect your lane settings. As you know, your Matchfile is already configured to address both these issue, so technically, you don't need *any* parameters with `match`. That said, I think it's clearer to specify development type, since a bit later, you'll be specifying several other modes. So I'd suggest setting your lane like this: 
```ruby
lane :sync_all_development do
  match(type: "development")
end
```
If you had any issues with this, please update your code and run the lane now. I'll do the same here.
```ruby
fastlane sync_all_development
```
As you can see… in very short order, our new lane checks everything, makes any needed updates included silently decrypted and encrypting, logging into our Apple and git accounts, managing our keychains, and much more. 
I'm a simple country boy, but I find that pretty amazing.
## Advanced Challenge
On to our advanced challenge. 
Our starting point is `../actions/register_devices/`. Its documentation is what you'd expect with one twist: There's no documentation for using this action in the command line, and if you try to run `fastlane register_devices` you'll find that it's just not possible. This is a new pattern you'll occasionally see with specialized actions that only really make sense to run within a lane. You'll most likely know intuitively to just run that command in a lane, but keep an eye out for this.
The parameter I need is `devices`. I'll stub this out now:
```ruby
lane :sync_device_info do
   register_devices(
     devices: {
     }
   )
 end
```
Now I need to find my device UDID's. If you haven't done this before, you can use Xcode to do this by connecting your device, opening `Devices`, selecting the device, clicking on the `Identifier` property to toggle it from serial to UDID, and copying it.
I'll do this for 2 devices:
```ruby
lane :sync_device_info do
   register_devices(
     devices: {
       "brin excess" => "00008020-001C491C0268002E",
       "Pro 120" => "f25bd75b4b3d643c749902dce888ae83c1f1f4ad"
     }
   )
   match(type: "development")
 end
```
I'll run my new lane now. Once again, update your code and do this yourself, pausing the video as needed:
<!-- Add display of the profile results in Finder to back up that the 2 devices got added -->
# Conclusion
Nice work! You've implemented fastlane's team signing code tools. As you can see, it's not at all difficult to implement this, and if your needs fit fastlane's vision, it's a beautifully executed schema that might transform how you work. 
In the next episode, we'll learn more about making lanes themselves more powerful. See you there!