# Introduction
The first tool you'll meet in this section is `precheck`. As you'll see, `precheck` makes checking all your app metadata ahead of time for potential issues that could cause to your app to be rejected an automatic process. Even better, it puts full control over the specific checks that'll be run in your control.
# Lecture
## Understanding App Review and Rejections
Every iOS developer probably knows this feeling: You've spend months sweating the details, developing away, working on your marketing plans, and lots more. Finally, the big day arrives: You submit your app to the App Store, get ready to open a vat of bubbly aaaaaand… learn that your app failed to meet what some guideline and got rejected. That's about as deflating as things get.
It's worth a quick reminder that Apple tries to communicate its guidelines clearly to us. One particularly helpful developer-facing starting point for better understanding and researching Apple's guidelines is the developer-friendly [Preparing Apps for Review][1]. This does a nice job to pointing to the *why* of key guidelines, calling out the most common reasons for rejection, and pointing to core underlying resources.
Even with this kind of help, there's no denying that guidelines can be hard to remember. they change often, and its easy to overlook one or more of them as you focus on… you know… *developing* your app (silly you!).
.## Precheck
Happily, fastlane's got your back here too. The `precheck` action action is specifically designed to help us flag — and avoid, ahead of time — App Store Review Guidelines violations in our apps. 
Once again, `precehck` follows the standard fastlane conventions we've seen, and consistent with this, its main page is at [https://docs.fastlane.tools/actions/precheck/#precheck][2]. As you'd expect, you can use this ad hoc in the command line, and within your lanes.
One quick note: `precheck` is an alias for fastlane's `check_app_store_metadata` action. As with other aliases, you can use whichever you prefer, and you'll see both in fastlane documentation.
`precheck` is tasked with scanning your app metadata for common rejection issues. It works by downloading your app's metadata from the App store, and checking it for violation of a set of rules. these include:
- Mentioning competing platforms
- Curse words
- Placeholder text is left
- Broken URLs
…and several more.
# Demo
Let's take a closer look:
As with the other actions you've seen, `precheck` follows the same fastlane conventions of use in the command and lanes, and for getting more info. 
I can run `precheck` from my project directly by simply saying:
```bash
fastlane precheck
```
It downloads my app metadata and checks them each for conformance, at this point using default settings. Under the hood, `precheck` checks for violations of several categories. Fastlane provides sensible defaults as usual, but also gives you full control.
For each of rule, you can have `precheck` **skip** checking altogether, **warn** you of violations but continue running, or **fail**, blocking further lane actions from continuing. 
In addition to this, `precheck` also lets you add *verboten* words you'd like to avoid. You can do this by giving its `custom_text` property an array of strings you want it to scan.
While you *could* specify these settings directly in an ad hoc command, you'll likely want to standardize them for your project. One way to do this is to run
```bash
fastlane precheck init
```
which will create a Precheckfile where you can then set how you'd like each check to be handled for your project. This is most useful if you find yourself running precheck directly in the command line frequently.
The other option is to include your settings within one or more lanes, which is likely most useful if you typically use `precheck` from a lane context, which is the approach you'll be using here.
# Conclusion
`precheck` is a relatively simple action that solves a big real world problem. It's easy to use, and can go a long way to limiting stress and uncertainty.
In the next episode, it'll be your turn to try out `precheck`, as you add it to your own lanes. See you there…

[1]:	[https://developer.apple.com/app-store/review/]
[2]:	https://docs.fastlane.tools/actions/precheck/#precheck