# Introduction
In this episode, it's your turn to put `gym` to work, as you build out the custom lanes you've already created and integrate them with `gym`. Let's dive right in!
# Introducing the Challenge
## Basic Challenge
- Your challenge is to create a new `Gymfile` and then configure it to use our project's "ChewChewTrain" schema, and to always run Clean on each build.
- Create a new `build_appstore` lane. 
	- Add a comment “# sync team appstore creds”, and then
	- Call gym and set it to store builds in a `build_AppStore` directory, using the right build type for the App Store.
## Advanced Challenge
Your advanced challenge is interesting this time. First, a quick review: As you saw earlier, the syntax to enable lanes to accept parameters is to add |options| immediately following the lane declaration, as in  `lane :name do |options|`. You can access named parameter:value pairs passed in using `var = options[:type]`.  In this challenge you’ll use this capability to:
- Rename your `sync_all_development` lane to `sync_signing_assets` and make it accept options.
- Insert a new line to get the value of any `type` parameter passed in, and then pass this to the lane's call to `match`.
Now you'll take advantage of your lanes new flexibility:
- Update `sync_all_appstore` with the new lane name and pass in a parameter of "appstore."
- Now duplicate your `build_appstore` lane and call the copy `build_adhoc`. 
- Update this lane to pass appropriate Ad Hoc values to `sync_signing_assets` and `gym`, and set gym's output directory to `build_Adhoc`
These challenges are heftier this time. Pause the video now, have fun, and remember that we'll walk through everything together once you're done. See you in a bit!
# Pause for Challenge
# Demo: Challenge Answers
## Basic Challenge
Welcome back. That was definitely a heftier set of challenges, and I hope you had fun figuring them out. If you got stuck, don’t worry… we’ll straighten everything out together now.
I’ll create a new `Gymfile` with 
```bash
fastlane gym init
```
and then I’ll configure it to always do a clean before building, and to use our desired scheme:
```ruby
clean(true)
scheme("ChewChewTrain")
```
Once again, remember that configuration files use method rather than parameter syntax. In other words, parentheses instead of colons here.
Now in `Fastfile`, I add a `build_appstore` lane, insert a commented reminder to sync our app store creds, and stub out a call to `gym`
```ruby
  lane :build_appstore do
	# sync team appstore creds
    gym(
    )
  end
```
Now I’ll add parameters for the output directory and build method. 
```ruby
  lane :build_appstore do
	# sync team appstore creds
    gym(
      output_directory: "build_AppStore",
      export_method: "app-store"
    )
  end
```
Take a moment to pause the video and fix any issues you may have had, and be sure to run your new lane before resuming.
## Pause
## Resume
Thanks for doing that. I’ll run my lane now…
```ruby
fastlane build_appstore
```
A lot has happened: `fastlane` has built an archive for App Store submission, and it placed everything in a new `export_AppStore` subdirectory. 
<!-- Show export_AppStore directory in Finder -->
Sweet!
## Advanced Challenge
The advanced challenge starts with the existing `sync_all_development ` lane:
```ruby
  lane :sync_all_development do
    match(type: "development")
  end
```
I'll rename this and configure it to accept options:
```ruby
  lane :sync_signing_assets do |options|
    match(type: "development")
  end
```
Then I'll assign the value of any `type` param passed it and pass this on to `match` in turn. I'll add a leading description while I'm here too for the sake of documentation:
```ruby
  desc "Sync Team Code-Signing Assets"
  lane :sync_signing_assets do |options|
    selectedType = options[:type]
    match(type: selectedType)
  end
```
Now I replace the `build_appstore` placeholder comment I left earlier with a dynamic call to my lane, passing in a named entry of “type” to its options:
```ruby
  desc "Build for App Store submission"
  lane :build_appstore do
    sync_signing_assets(type: "appstore")
    gym(
      output_directory: "build_AppStore",
      export_method: "app-store"
    )
  end
```
One quick gotcha: Be aware that `gym` uses hyphens in its values, while `match` doesn't, so we use "appstore" without a hyphen with `sync_signing_assets` which wraps `match`, but "app-store" with a hyphen for `gym`. It is what it is :]
Finally, I make a copy of `build_appstore`, name it `build_adhoc`, and replace its App Store values with Ad Hoc ones:
```ruby
  desc "Build for Ad Hoc submission"
  lane :build_adhoc do
    sync_signing_assets(type: "adhoc")
    gym(
      output_directory: "build_AdHoc",
      export_method: "ad-hoc"
    )
  end
```
Once again, please pause the video, fix any issues you ran into, and run your lane.
# Challenge Slide
# Demo
OK. I’ll run this lane…
```ruby
fastlane build_adhoc
```
And… some pretty sweet stuff happens: Thanks to our new multi-functional code syncing lane, `match` syncs our team’s ad hoc code-signing assets and then does all the heavy lifting of building our ad hoc binaries, this time putting them in a new `export_Adhoc` folder. 
<!-- Reveal export_Adhoc directory in Finder -->
It's pretty sweet watching how much work `fastlane` is now doing on our behalf. 
# Conclusion
Congratulations. You've reached a couple of significant milestones in this episode:
First, you've created your first truly multi-purpose lane that takes options and reacts accordingly.
And you've reached a bit of a watershed with your 2 new build lanes: Both of these are now managing moderately complex custom workflows. You're reaching the point now where your lanes are becoming capable of powering complete workflows. 
In the next episode, we'll take all this up another notch as we explore how `fastlane` can automate distribution of your test builds. See you there!