# Intro
Now that you've seen how fastlane can automate app registration, we'll turn now to automating management of development certificates.
# Lecture
## About Signing Certificates
**[Slide ]** 
Signing certificates play an essential role in Apple's security scheme, functioning as a form of verifiable digital ID. Just like a physical form of ID, a certificate can be presented to prove that your apps haven't been tampered with by any unauthorized folks. This is great, but it does mean that as developers, we must keep an eye on our signing certificates throughout the life of our apps. 
**[Slide ]**  Add iOS Certificate screenshot [https://developer.apple.com/account/ios/certificate/create][1]
To request a Signing Certificate, you must complete and submit a Certificate Signing Request. Conventionally, this is done either via the Keychain Access app, or using the Apple Developer Portal site. 
This request is relayed to an Issuing authority which returns the requested certificate to Apple, which in turn provides the Certificate, along with an intermediate signing certificate for verification, to you. Note that iOS Development Certificates contain a public | private pair of Assymetrical Keys. Apple stores your Certificate's public key in the Developer Portal, but the private key is stored only in your local machine. Guard it well, grasshopper…
if you use automatic code signing, Xcode silently handles obtaining certificates for you. This process is so transparent that it's possible to completely miss the significant work Xcode does on our behalf. 
As nice as this is, though, certificates can and do develop problems. And when they do, Xcode can't really help much. Manually resolving these can take significant time. In short: Automation can improve this.
## cert Documentation
**[Slide ]** cert home & log
The fastlane action designed to automate requesting and processing code signing requests is called `cert`.  
Like all fastlane actions, `cert` "stays in its lane", and is nicely focused on a single task. It also follows several other conventions we introduced earlier. 
**[Slide ]** Action page
Once again, if you didn't know which action to use, you'd likely start at fastlane's `actions` page, where you can find an entire section devoted to `Code Signing`, and you can see `cert` is listed here.
**[Slide ]** Cert page
Like all fastlane actions, `cert's` home page is predictably at docs.fastlane.tools/actions/cert. You can see that cert is an alias for the `get_certificates` action, and once again, this is a common fastlane (and for that matter, Ruby) pattern.
**[Slide ]** Highlight of CLI v Lane usage
And once again, the documentation begins with a summary of the action itself. Its Usage section start with command line usage, while lane syntax and parameters are listed at the bottom of the page. 
By the way… you may notice a callout on this page suggested to use the newer `match` action in most cases. We'll do exactly this in section 2 of this course. However, we'll start with the simpler `cert` action because it provides a more direct learning path at this point.
# Demo
## Command Line
OK, let's take `cert` for a spin in Terminal. 
Once again, I make sure I'm in my project root directory, then run:
```bash
fastlane cert
```
Because I've used the basic form of the command, I'm prompted for my Apple ID, and then asked to select a team. Then the magic begins:
- `cert` establishes a valid Developer Portal session then checks for a valid iOS Distribution certificate
- If it finds one, it confirms that it's installed locally 
- If not, it  creates a new private key, creates a new signing requests, generates, downloads, and installs a new certificate, and imports all generated files into your Keychain. 
Viva le automation!
That's a nice start. What else can we do in the command line? Once again, we can use the fastlane pattern `fastlane <action> --help` to get inline info about CLI usage:
```bash
fastlane cert --help
```
Reading the documentation, I realize that by default, `cert` concerns itself with *distribution* certificates. Apple uses different sets of certificates for *development* and *distribution*. Since we're concerned with at this point is our *development* certificates, so I'll run:
```bash
fastlane cert --development
```
That's mo better. I won't usually get too fancy with the CLI form of actions, but if I wanted to avoid prompts for my Apple ID and team, I'd enter:
```bash
fastlane cert --development -u bschick1@mac.com -l "Brian Schick"
```
I can also quickly find and revoke any expired certificates with
```bash
fastlane cert revoke_expired
```
That's a good roundup of cert in the command line for now. Before we move on, here's a couple more conventions to keep an eye out for:
I'll generally review each action in the command line first, then move on to lanes. This is helpful because the command line acts as a kind of sandbox where we can quickly try out actions quickly. 
This also corresponds to a good way to think of each action's two uses. If you want to do a single thing quickly, you'll likely use the command line. But if you want to do anything more than this, a lane is your best friend. Lanes take some setup, but they also unlock the real power of most actions.
In some cases, you'll also find that there's not complete parity between available command line options and in-lane parameters. In this case, `cert` doesn't have a lane parameter equivalent to the `revoke_expired`. There are almost always good reasons for these lacks of parity, and again, when in doubt, consult the documentation.
## Lanes
Before we leave terminal, I'll enter:
```bash
fastlane actions cert
```
As you saw earlier, this is another fastlane syntactic convention. Here, it gives me a nice summary of the **lane**, parameters I can use, and also kindly refers me back to the main action documentation page (yep, that's one more consistent convention).
Using cert in a lane is easy. if we're calling it without parameters, it's as simple as:
```ruby
lane :a_lane do
  cert
end
```
If I want to include focus on development certificates and pass my credentials, I'll update that to:
```ruby
  lane :a_lane do
    cert(
      username: "bschick1@mac.com",
      team_name: "Brian Schick",
      development: true
    )
  end 
```
One last tip: Both the command line and lanes give you helpful feedback if you goof up syntactically. For example, if I try to include a non-existent `revoke_expired` parameter in my lane, fastlane helpfully responds:
```bash
Could not find option 'revoke_expired' in the list of available options: development, force, username, team_id, team_name, filename, output_path, keychain_path, keychain_password, platform
```
# Summary
That wraps up `cert`. In the next episode, we'll move on to fastlane's action for provisioning profiles. See you there…

[1]:	https://developer.apple.com/account/ios/certificate/create